{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2818
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red18\green79\blue120;
\red8\green64\blue103;\red23\green50\blue102;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c6667\c38824\c54510;
\cssrgb\c0\c32157\c47843;\cssrgb\c11373\c26275\c47451;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid901\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid10}
{\list\listtemplateid11\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1001\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid11}
{\list\listtemplateid12\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid12}
{\list\listtemplateid13\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid13}
{\list\listtemplateid14\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid14}
{\list\listtemplateid15\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid15}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid11\listoverridecount0\ls11}{\listoverride\listid12\listoverridecount0\ls12}{\listoverride\listid13\listoverridecount0\ls13}{\listoverride\listid14\listoverridecount0\ls14}{\listoverride\listid15\listoverridecount0\ls15}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Given current and prospective developments in the Australian economy, including the improved outlook for inflation, the Reserve Bank and the Government believe that a further easing in monetary policy is appropriate.\cb1 \
\cb2 To this end, the Bank will be operating in the domestic money market this morning to reduce cash rates by a further 1 percentage point, to around 12 per cent. It is expected that this reduction in cash rates will flow promptly and fully into banks' indicator lending rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 The objectives of monetary policy continue to be to help lower inflation over the medium-term while seeking to avoid damaging swings in economic activity. Today's reduction \'96 which brings the total reduction in cash rates in 1990 to 6 percentage points \'96 is consistent with those objectives.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflationary pressures are clearly abating, with practically all indicators pointing to smaller increases in prices and wages than we have seen in a long time. This has been reflected in the financial markets, where yields on government bonds have fallen significantly in recognition of the improvement in inflationary prospects.\cb1 \
\cb2 At the same time, spending, production and employment are weak and likely to remain so for a while yet.\cb1 \
\cb2 In these circumstances, it is appropriate that there be a further modest reduction in interest rates. Indeed, not to ease when expectations about inflation are so much better would imply higher real interest rates, which would be contrary to the prospective requirements of the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy on its own cannot rectify Australia's difficult economic problems but today's reduction in interest rates should provide some relief to viable businesses and encourage investment opportunities, without risking the hard-won gains on inflation.\
\
The Reserve Bank will be operating in the domestic money market this morning with a view to reducing cash rates by about one percentage point, to around 13 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 This decision follows discussions at the October meeting of the Bank's Board and consultations with the Treasurer.\cb1 \
\cb2 This further reduction in interest rates is consistent with maintaining an environment conducive to lowering inflation over the medium term while avoiding an excessive slowdown in economic activity.\cb1 \
\cb2 A range of price indicators, including the CPI, show that inflation has been coming down over the last 12 months. The removal of pressures in goods and labour markets, together with falling asset prices, should see further progress on the underlying inflation rate. On the other hand, the recent increase in oil prices will contribute to a once-and-for-all rise in the price level; we will all need to be vigilant to prevent this from feeding into the underlying inflation rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Domestic spending and activity have declined further and are likely to remain weak for some time yet. Retail trade has been flat, investment has fallen, and employment also is now falling. Import volumes are now about 10 per cent below their peak. Credit continues to grow at a moderate pace, as it has since the beginning of 1990.\cb1 \
\cb2 This further reduction in cash rates is expected to flow through quickly and fully to banks' indicator lending rates.\
\
The Reserve Bank will be operating in the domestic money market this morning with a view to reducing cash rates by about one percentage point.\cb1 \
\cb2 This action is being taken following the regular late July meeting of the Board and after consultations with the Treasurer.\cb1 \
\cb2 At its meeting earlier this week, the Board reviewed all the available data on current and prospective trends in the economy. While inflation is still too high, it was judged to be moving in the right direction. Evidence of some moderation in inflation has been accumulating for some time from the various price indices, and from a fall in asset prices. Yesterday's Consumer Price Index release confirmed these trends.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflationary pressures are expected to ease further as the economy continues to slow. Although some sectors are faring better than others, most indicators point to very moderate levels of domestic demand overall. Consumer spending generally is subdued, imports have declined significantly during the course of 1989/90, and business investment is falling. Credit growth has declined markedly from earlier high rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 In these circumstances, the Board believes a modest reduction in interest rates is appropriate and consistent with maintaining a medium-term goal of lowering the current account deficit and inflation while avoiding an excessive slowdown in economic activity.\cb1 \
\cb2 It is expected that this reduction in cash rates will flow through quickly and fully to banks' indicator lending rates. Even so, interest rates will remain at relatively high levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 Decisions on future changes in interest rates will be taken in the light of developments in inflation and economic activity.\
\
The Reserve Bank proposes to operate in the domestic money market this morning with a view to reducing cash rates to within the range of 15 to 15\'bd per cent. In recent weeks cash rates have averaged a little under 16\'bd per cent. This action follows yesterday's Board meeting and consultations with the Treasurer.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank believes that a further reduction of the order indicated is warranted by the fall in domestic demand that is occurring, and is consistent with the medium term objectives of lowering inflation and the current account deficit.\cb1 \
\cb2 When cash rates were lowered on 23 January and 15 February, this was against the background of accumulating evidence that the economy was slowing. Since then, the slowing has been confirmed: the National Accounts showed total spending fell by over 1 per cent in the December quarter; employment has remained flat in the three months to February; and imports have turned down. Various surveys now point to a significant decline in activity and confidence in the business sector. The financial sector is reflecting this slowdown: the provision of credit in particular has been growing at a moderate pace over recent months, in marked contrast to the rapid growth of earlier periods.\cb1 \
\cb2 The slowing in spending and the easing in labour market pressures which is now occurring will help to create a more favourable environment for containing and reducing inflation. Sustainable reductions in inflation over the medium term, however, will require continued restraint in monetary policy, as well as in fiscal and wages policies.\cb1 \
\cb2 In recent weeks yields in the short term money market have fallen and thereby contributed to reductions in intermediaries' borrowing costs. These reductions and the further reductions in cash rates now foreshadowed will allow the banks and other financial institutions to lower their lending rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are significant lags involved before reductions in interest rates are reflected in spending decisions. Some further slowing can be expected to become apparent over the coming months; recent changes in policy have been made with this expectation in mind. Monetary policy must also have regard to the extent to which other policy instruments contribute to the adjustment process.\cb1 \
\cb2 Developments in the economy will be watched closely over the months ahead; during that period the Bank does not foresee further adjustments to monetary policy.\
\
The Reserve Bank acted in the domestic money market this morning to bring about a further modest reduction in interest rates. Specifically, the Bank is seeking a reduction in cash rates of up to 0.5 percentage points from their recent levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 In my statement of 23 January, I noted that \'91decisions in respect of any further easing in monetary policy will be made in the light of developments in the economy, especially in demand and wage and price levels\'92. Today's action reflected the Bank's assessment that the level of demand is declining and that a further modest easing in interest rates is warranted.\cb1 \
\cb2 Information which has become available recently confirms that spending is continuing to weaken and that credit growth is slowing. Retail trade is subdued and spending on both residential and non-residential construction is being cut back. The two major lagging indicators of the business cycle \'96 the labour market and imports \'96 also provide confirmation of the slowdown; employment growth has slowed and job vacancies have declined, while imports have fallen.\cb1 \
\cb2 The growth in credit is now less than half that of a year ago; banks and other financial institutions report a marked falling off in lending activity in recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains at a high rate but, with demand now easing, some lessening in inflationary pressures can be expected over the period ahead. Substantial progress in this critical area, however, will require sustained restraint in fiscal and wages policies, together with continuing firm monetary policy.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank believes that this further modest reduction in interest rates represents, on the basis of current assessments, a reasonable balancing of the requirement for monetary policy to continue to play its part in bearing down on inflation while at the same time avoiding an excessive slowdown in economic activity.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank will continue to monitor the situation closely over the period ahead. It is the Bank's intention to pursue steadiness in domestic money market conditions during this period.\
\
The Governor of the Reserve Bank (Mr Bernie Fraser) confirmed that the Bank had operated in the domestic money market this morning to bring about a modest reduction in interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Reserve Bank Board, which reviewed the case for an easing in monetary policy at its November and December meetings, agreed at a meeting yesterday that it was appropriate to be making some adjustment now. The Governor consulted the Treasurer following the meeting.\cb1 \
\cb2 For some time now, monetary and other policies have been directed towards restraining the growth in domestic spending. To this end, money market interest rates, for example, have risen by over 7 percentage points since the early months of 1988.\cb1 \
\cb2 These increases have contributed to the marked slowing in spending which has occurred in several sectors of the economy in the second half of 1989 and which is continuing into 1990. This slowdown in the previously very rapid growth in domestic spending is helping to reduce demand for imports and inflationary pressures, although it will take both time and continued concerted policy action to bring inflation and the current account deficit to acceptable levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 Although there can be no precision in such matters, the Bank will be seeking in its market operations to reduce unofficial cash rates by between one half and one percentage point from their average levels of recent months. A modest reduction of this order is judged to be appropriate having regard to the slowing in the economy which has occurred and is in prospect, and the continuing role which monetary policy must play in moderating demand and containing inflationary pressures.\cb1 \
\cb2 This reduction in cash rates can be expected to flow through to security yields and interest rates charged by intermediaries, but the extent and speed of reductions in these rates will be determined by the competitive positions of banks and other market participants.\cb1 \
\cb2 Decisions in respect of any further easing in monetary policy will be made in the light of developments in the economy, especially demand and wage and price levels. The Bank will continue to pursue a monetary policy which supports other policies directed at achieving, over time, improvements in inflation and the current account.\
\
The Reserve Bank will be operating in the money market this morning to reduce overnight cash rates by 1 percentage point, to around 8\'bd per cent. This action follows yesterday's Board meeting and consultations with the Treasurer.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board of the Bank concluded that a further reduction in interest rates of this magnitude was warranted, given recent and, prospective developments in inflation and domestic demand.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent September quarter CPI confirmed earlier evidence that inflation is still trending down. This trend is supported by other monthly indicators of inflation, and by measures of inflationary expectations based on surveys and financial prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 Allowing for special factors, the \'91underlying\'92 rate of inflation is currently of the order of 3\'bd per cent, about half the comparable rate only two years ago. Maintaining and further improving on that underlying rate will be critical in helping to sustain lower interest rates, and in generating new productive investment and improved competitiveness over the years ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the meanwhile, while there are some signs of a pick-up in economic activity, notably in housing and retail sales, considerable slack exists in the economy. By helping to restore the cash flow of the business sector in particular, lower borrowing costs will help to underpin the expected modest recovery in output. The Board does not believe that today's reduction in cash rates will trigger any resurgence of inflationary pressures.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank expects banks and other financial institutions to move promptly to reflect today's reduction in cash rates in their lending rates.\
\
The Reserve Bank will be operating in the domestic money market this morning to reduce the cash rate by about 1 percentage point, to around 9\'bd per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 This action was agreed at a meeting of the Reserve Bank Board earlier this morning and with the Government.\cb1 \
\cb2 The announcement is being made this morning, rather than tomorrow morning, because a bond tender is to be held later today (announced at Budget time). The Bank believes its intention to lower cash rates should be made known before tender bids are finalised and lodged.\cb1 \
\cb2 As with each of the eight earlier reductions since January 1990, the Bank regards today's decision as consistent with the aim of maintaining the downward momentum of inflation while seeking to minimise the costs in terms of economic activity and employment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Since the last reduction of 1 percentage point on 16 May, there has been further evidence of declining inflation and inflationary expectations. The June quarter CPI, which was released after the Board's previous meeting at the end of July, confirmed a lower underlying rate of inflation. The national accounts and other economic data available since that meeting also indicate that economic activity generally remained relatively subdued.\cb1 \
\cb2 Continued weakness in money and financial aggregates suggests that the demand for credit for business expansion remains low. Business investment in new plant and equipment, in particular, is declining. The latest reduction in interest rates will help to improve business confidence and cash flows, and contribute to the forecast modest recovery in output as the year progresses.\cb1 \
\cb2 The lower cash rates will enable banks and other financial institutions to lower their interest rates. The Reserve Bank will be looking to see the lower cash rates reflected quickly and fully in banks' indicator lending rates, particularly for business loans.\
\
The Reserve Bank believes that some further reduction in interest rates at this time is both appropriate and responsible.\cb1 \
\cb2 To this end, the Bank will be operating in the domestic money market this morning to reduce cash rates by 1 percentage point, to around 10\'bd per cent. This action follows last week's Board meeting and subsequent discussions with the Treasurer. It brings the total fall in cash rates since January 1990 to 7\'bd percentage points and reduces cash rates to their lowest level since early 1984.\cb1 \
\cb2 Earlier interest rate reductions had been made with an eye to trends in both economic activity and inflation. The same considerations underlie today's reduction. The March quarter CPI result clearly confirms other evidence that inflation is continuing to fall. In addition, expectations of future price increases \'96 which can give inflation a momentum of its own even when demand pressures have abated \'96 are continuing to shift downwards. This significant change of attitude is now reflected directly in survey-based measures of inflationary expectations and indirectly in lower long term bond yields; it will help to sustain lower inflation beyond the current cyclical downturn.\cb1 \
\cb2 While there are some tentative signs that the economic downturn is beginning to bottom out, indicators generally (including the slow growth in credit from banks and other financial institutions) suggested that interest rates could be lowered further without re-igniting demand pressures. Even after allowing for today's reductions, interest rates in real terms will remain relatively high.\cb1 \
\cb2 The lower cash rates can be expected to pass through quickly to lower lending rates by banks and other financial institutions. These will provide some relief to borrowers' cash flows, as well as some encouragement to investors to pursue viable propositions. Over the medium term, the maintenance of the present firm anti-inflationary resolve will help to sustain lower interest rates and contribute to a more productive mix of investment and to improvements in international competitiveness.\
\
The Reserve Bank will be operating in the domestic money market this morning to reduce cash rates by about half a percentage point to around 11\'bd per cent. This action follows last week's Board meeting and discussions with the Treasurer. It will bring the total reduction in cash rates since January 1990 to 6\'bd percentage points; the previous reduction (of 1 percentage point) occurred on 18 December 1990.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank believes that this further modest reduction is warranted by current trends in the economy and on-going signs of reductions in inflation and in inflationary expectations.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over the past year, there has been a substantial fall in domestic demand, although that trend now appears to be flattening out. Today's reduction in cash rates will permit banks and other financial institutions to lower their interest rates. Together with the earlier interest rate reductions, this should contribute to a gradual pick-up in domestic demand during the course of 1991, consistent with further reductions in inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation indicators, including the price and earnings measures from the December quarter national accounts, monthly price indices, and long term bond yields, suggest that the trend towards lower inflation is continuing. A lower inflation rate will help in managing many of Australia's medium term problems, including international competitiveness and the current account deficit, and the authorities will ensure that monetary policy continues to pursue that objective.\
\
The Reserve Bank will be acting in the money markets this morning to reduce overnight interest rates by three quarters of a percentage point, to around 5\'be per cent. This action follows yesterday's Board meeting and consultations with the Treasurer.\cb1 \
\cb2 Today's decision continues the process, which commenced in January 1990, of easing nominal interest rates in line with evidence of lower inflation and slackness in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent indicators suggest that inflation will continue at low rates. This is likely notwithstanding some rises in public sector charges and taxes, and the effects of the depreciation of the $A over the past year. Expectations of inflation also have come down and have been reflected in a further significant fall in long-term security yields.\cb1 \
\cb2 At the same time the recovery in economic activity has not so far developed the momentum expected of it. Demand for labour, in particular, has weakened recently and unemployment remains stubbornly high. Although the full stimulus of the Government's February economic package will be felt over the year ahead, there seems little risk of the economy overheating.\cb1 \
\cb2 In these circumstances, the Bank believes that a further reduction in interest rates is appropriate. The size of the reduction is judged to be consistent with contributing to a sustained recovery in activity and employment, while maintaining domestic and overseas investor confidence in the anti-inflationary thrust of policy.\cb1 \
\cb2 To be effective, the latest reduction in official rates must be translated fully and promptly into lower rates charged to business, home buyers and other borrowers; the Reserve Bank will be looking to banks and other financial institutions to respond in those terms.\cb1 \
\
\cb2 The Reserve Bank will be acting in the money markets this morning to bring about a reduction in overnight cash rates of 1 percentage point, to around 6.5 per cent. This action follows yesterday's Board meeting and consultations with the Treasurer.\cb1 \
\cb2 In reaching this decision, the Bank has had regard to the current information on the economy, particularly recent and prospective trends in inflation. The March quarter CPI provided further evidence that inflation in Australia is being contained at a relatively low rate. Other price indicators \'96 such as the various ABS monthly price series \'96 also suggest that prices are rising only slowly. In underlying terms, consumer price inflation appears to be running at less than 3 per cent. Growth of labour costs is similarly subdued.\cb1 \
\cb2 The available indicators suggest that inflationary expectations remain at a low level, and falls in bond yields since the CPI release are another recent sign of downward revision in price expectations. Given the excess capacity remaining in the economy, little upward pressure on general prices is likely in the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 The reduction in cash rates will enable banks and other financial intermediaries to lower their lending rates, and thereby support the recovery in economic activity. While recovery is underway, assisted by modest stimulus from the Government's recent fiscal package, it is uneven and has little impetus as yet. Business demand for credit in particular remains sluggish, with most borrowers still confronted with high real interest rates. A reduction in those rates will help business cash flow and provide some encouragement to undertake new investments which will help to create additional jobs and sustain net exports.\cb1 \
\cb2 Lending for housing on the other hand has been growing solidly in recent months, assisted by special interest rate reductions and other incentives which banks have offered as part of their competitive strategies. As a result, the housing sector is now building up some momentum.\cb1 \
\cb2 Contrary to some media reports, the Reserve Bank has not been pressuring the banks to reduce their lending for housing. Rather, it has been making the point that, from a macro-economic perspective, the housing area does not need further special encouragement for new borrowers at this time and that the Bank would wish to see further reductions in lending rates concentrated in the business area.\
\
The Reserve Bank will be operating in the money market this morning to reduce overnight cash rates by 1 percentage point. This action follows a meeting of the Board yesterday and consultations with the Treasurer.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over the past two years, cash rates have been reduced on eleven occasions, from 18 per cent to 7\'bd per cent. Most other interest rates have followed a broadly similar trend (see Attachment).\cb1 \
\cb2 Banks and other financial institutions can be expected to adjust their lending rates as the effects of lower cash rates pass through to lower funding costs generally.\cb1 \
\cb2 The latest reduction in official interest rates has been made against the background of signs of continuing sluggishness in the domestic economy, as well as further indications of a lessening of inflationary pressures. Included among the latter are the monthly product price indexes and long term security yields, which have fallen further over recent weeks.\cb1 \
\cb2 In coming to its decision, the Board was also aware that the Government is proposing to make a statement soon which will aim both to assist the recovery and improve the economic environment for sustained, non-inflationary growth into the 1990s. The content of that statement will obviously be one important influence in shaping the future stance of monetary policy.\cb1 \
\cb2 While lower interest rates will not on their own effect necessary structural changes, they will contribute to the recovery through improvements in cash flows and in business and consumer sentiment, and in those ways encourage increased investment and employment.\
\
The Reserve Bank will be operating in the money market this morning to reduce overnight interest rates by 0.5\'a0per\'a0cent, to 4.75 per cent. This action, which follows recent deliberations of the Board and consultations with the Treasurer, is in response to evidence of continuing slow growth and low inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 Most indicators suggest that the economic recovery is proceeding at a modest rate. Consumer spending has been restrained and business investment is not yet providing the impetus necessary to sustain a solid recovery. Budgetary policy has been important in supporting overall demand but it cannot, as the Treasurer has stated, continue to do this over the medium term. Faster growth of private sector activity is necessary to generate more jobs and reduce unemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 At the same time, inflation remains under control. The CPI data released two days ago confirmed that the \'91underlying\'92 rate of inflation remains well within a 2 to 3 per cent range; this situation is expected to continue, notwithstanding possible rises in the \'91headline\'92 rate over coming quarters. Wage settlements remain moderate, with ordinary time earnings increasing by only 1.8 per cent over the twelve months to May. The fall in the Australian dollar over the past two years has resulted in higher import prices which are feeding into consumer prices, but the effects to date have been manageable.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the Board's judgment, the combination of a sluggish rate of recovery, relatively high real interest rates and low inflation warrant a further modest fall in cash rates. This is consistent with the program of policy easings which has been implemented over the past three and a half years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The latest reduction in official rates is expected to flow through quickly to rates charged by financial intermediaries. As has been indicated previously, the Bank believes that lending rates for business borrowers should be lowered by at least the reduction in official rates.\
\
The Reserve Bank will be acting this morning to reduce overnight interest rates, by 0.5 per cent, to around 5.25 per cent. Reductions in bank and other interest rates can be expected to follow.\cb1 \
\cb2 This action, which follows discussions yesterday with the Government, is consistent with the position outlined by the Reserve Bank in its January Bulletin:\cb1 \
\cb2 \'91The combination of low inflation and weak economic activity would ordinarily provide a case for easing of monetary policy. Current nervousness in foreign exchange markets, however, which follows earlier falls in the exchange rate, effectively precludes any such action at this time.\'92\cb1 \
\cb2 At its meeting on 2 March, the Bank's Board reaffirmed this position. It noted that the foreign exchange market was showing signs of settling down but that the election period contained the potential for renewed instability. In the event, however, financial markets have exhibited considerable robustness over recent weeks, with the exchange rate strengthening and bond yields falling.\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic activity is stronger now than six months ago but it is not moving ahead fast enough to make inroads into the level of unemployment or excess capacity more generally. The provision of credit, particularly to businesses, remains flat and business investment has shown only tentative signs of recovery. At the same time, further evidence has emerged of lower inflation, lower inflationary expectations and negligible wage pressures. In these circumstances, a further reduction in interest rates is appropriate; it will help to support the recovery without adding to inflationary pressures.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, Australia is well placed to move into a period of sustained, low inflationary growth. This, however, will require a further pick-up in private investment if capacity constraints are to be avoided down the track. To that end, the Budget deficit will need to be reduced over the medium term to provide room for a rising level of business investment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Lower interest rates will assist business cash flows and make some contribution to encouraging investment. In contrast to lending for housing, which is continuing at high levels, lending to business remains weak. Today's reduction in cash rates will reduce funding costs of financial institutions which the Bank expects to flow through to banks' lending rates. In this process, the Bank would like to see priority given to reductions in lending rates for business borrowers.\cb1 \
\cb2 The lower cash rates will also flow through to deposit and investment rates, which will reduce nominal interest returns to savers. Given low current and prospective rates of inflation, however, any erosion of the real value of these savings will be much less than it was in earlier periods of high inflation.\
\
The Reserve Bank will be taking action this morning to raise cash rates by 1 percentage point to around 7.5 per cent. It follows increases of three-quarters of a percentage point on 17 August and 1 percentage point on 24 October. Movements in the cash rate (and the predominant variable housing loan rate) over the past decade are shown in the attached graph.\cb1 \
\cb2 This further tightening has occurred rather sooner than some might have expected, basically because of evidence that the economy overall has been growing more strongly than earlier thought. Notwithstanding the effects of severe drought conditions in many areas, total output increased by 6.4 per cent in the year to September (in real terms), while total spending increased by 8.3 per cent. This gap has been filled by rising imports, which have increased by 18 per cent over the past year. Another indicator of the continuing strong growth in the economy is employment, which grew by 3.3 per cent over the year to November.\cb1 \
\cb2 To date, price and wage increases remain well contained. In underlying terms, consumer prices are increasing by about 2 per cent, as they have been for about three years. Rises in labour costs also have been quite modest.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, however, this reassuring situation could not be expected to continue at current rates of growth in production and spending. Such slack as remains is being wound back quite quickly, notwithstanding the welcome strength in business investment, and wage pressures have begun to increase, in part because of the strong labour market.\cb1 \
\cb2 Aggregate spending in particular needs to be restrained to more sustainable growth rates but there are few signs of any slowing at this time, with the possible exception of the housing area, where lending approvals have retreated from their earlier, very high levels. Against that is the strengthening international economy, which is serving to boost some commodity prices and raise some incomes in Australia.\cb1 \
\cb2 As with the two previous increases, today's rise is intended to help sustain solid economic expansion with low inflation well into the future, that being the surest way to deliver on-going reductions in unemployment. Timely increases in interest rates which succeed in heading off inflationary pressures before they take hold also mean that interest rate rises over the course of the cycle will be lower than would otherwise be necessary.\
\
The Reserve Bank will be operating in money markets this morning to increase cash rates by 1 percentage point, to 6\'bd per cent. This action follows deliberations by the Reserve Bank Board at its October meeting, and consultations with the Treasurer.\cb1 \
\cb2 Like the increase of three-quarters of a percentage point announced on 17 August, this increase will help to avoid overheating of the economy down the track, thereby prolonging the period of sustained growth in production and employment.\cb1 \
\cb2 It is clear that, notwithstanding the serious impact which the drought is having on many rural communities, the economy overall is growing robustly. Spending in particular is increasing faster than earlier forecasts might have indicated. Retail sales are up solidly on the back of rising employment and on-going consumer confidence. Business investment also is now growing strongly, and business demand for funds is picking up. Housing loan commitments have slowed but remain at a high level, and the stock of housing credit outstanding is still increasing rapidly.\cb1 \
\cb2 Price movements to date remain well contained, with inflation continuing at around 2 per cent in underlying terms. Policy settings, however, must be forward looking, and with the earlier slack in the economy now being wound back and employment growing very strongly, pressures on prices and wages can be expected to intensify. Today's forward looking adjustment in monetary policy will help to control those pressures, and help to keep underlying inflation around 2 to 3 per cent.\
\
The Reserve Bank will be operating in money markets this morning to increase cash rates by 0.75 per cent, to around 5\'bd per cent. This action follows deliberations by the Board over several months, and consultations with the Government.\cb1 \
\cb2 The increase in interest rates \'96 the first in five years \'96 is necessary to help sustain non-inflationary growth into the future, that being the best guarantee of further increases in jobs and reductions in unemployment. Although the timing of the move has been influenced by the latest rise in US interest rates, the move itself is driven by the marked turnaround in Australia's domestic economic conditions.\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic recovery in Australia is now well established, with total output around 10 per cent higher than its low point in mid-1991. The pace of activity has accelerated over the past year, with employment in particular growing strongly, and unemployment declining. Indicators of capacity utilisation suggest that about half of the available slack has now been taken up. While difficulties remain in some areas \'96 most notably in the drought-affected rural sector \'96 the economy overall is experiencing a solid and steady recovery.\cb1 \
\cb2 Good growth is expected to continue into the foreseeable future, aided by a gradual pick-up in the world economy. Household spending has increased strongly over the past year and should continue to do so in the present climate of rising incomes and confidence. Business investment has been slower to move, but a significant lift in spending in this area is expected over the year ahead. The combination of strong profitability, rising confidence, falling debt levels and well-positioned lenders has created a favourable climate for investment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Aggregate credit is now growing at a pace consistent with sustained expansion in economic activity. It is, however, unbalanced credit growth, in that lending for housing has been increasing rapidly while lending for business has only just begun to rise. Housing loans outstanding have grown at over 20 per cent per annum for the past two years and cannot continue at this pace without creating unwanted pressures in the housing market and more generally (see below).\cb1 \
\cb2 Given these developments, the current interest rate regime, which was adopted more than a year ago when the recovery was much less robust, is no longer appropriate.\cb1 \
\cb2 The aim of today's tightening is not to bring the recovery to an end, but to help reduce the risks of the economy overheating, and thereby contribute to a more durable recovery. While inflation remains around 2 per cent in underlying terms, upward pressures on inflation over the coming year will clearly be stronger than they have been in the recent past. In more buoyant economic conditions, the incentives to discount prices and cut costs will lessen, and demands for wage increases will grow. Such developments tend to accompany cyclical upswings but policy needs to make sure that they do not lead to major outbreaks of inflation. Timely, forward looking adjustments of monetary policy will help to demonstrate to all groups in the community that the authorities are determined that Australia remain a low inflation country in what seems certain to be a low inflation world. Today's action is intended to help keep underlying inflation around 2 to 3 per cent over a long period.\
\
Following the considerations at the Board meeting last week, the Bank will operate in the money market today to reduce the cash rate from 6.5 per cent to 6.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 This reduction essentially reflects a further improvement in the inflationary outlook. The Bank now expects underlying inflation to stay below 2\'bd per cent for the remainder of this financial year, and our assessment is for continued good inflation performance in 1997/98. This improvement in the inflation outlook is influenced by the strength of the exchange rate which, despite the volatility of last week, remains above its average of recent months. There is also further evidence from surveys of reductions in inflationary expectations, and the price deflators in the latest National Accounts confirm further falls in actual inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent figures have had little effect on our assessment of economic growth in aggregate, although the balance is slightly altered. Confidence that investment will be a source of strength over the next year has increased, while the outlook for consumption is a likely more subdued. Overall, it is the Bank's assessment that the economy has the capacity to grow a little faster without putting pressure on inflation. Today's easing, together with the two earlier ones, should provide an environment for stronger employment growth, subject to appropriate wage restraint.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy should be forward looking and, to the extent possible, act pre-emptively. In the second half of 1994, when a rise in inflation threatened, monetary policy was tightened three times. These tightenings helped keep the increase in inflation to modest levels, thus allowing the economy to remain on a sustainable growth path. Over the past six months, with a pronounced fall in inflation in prospect, monetary policy has now been eased three times.\cb1 \
\cb2 In responding to present circumstances, monetary policy remains focused on longer-term factors impinging on the economy, and on the outlook for inflation. Here the outlook for labour costs remains crucial. At present, aggregate wage developments are consistent with inflation staying at a 2 to 3 per cent average. Monetary policy is assuming, for the time being, that this will remain the case. However, if wages growth were to rise appreciably, either because of enterprise bargains or centralised decisions, there would be a severe squeeze on business, which is still coming to grips with the competitive, low inflation environment. Monetary policy would, in such circumstances, be set to preserve the favourable inflation outlook.\
\
The Bank will operate in the money market today to reduce the cash rate by 0.5 of a percentage point to 6.5 per cent. This decision was taken by the Board yesterday in view of the improvement in the outlook for inflation, which has increased the scope for the economy to sustain a faster rate of growth.\cb1 \
\cb2 The latest CPI shows underlying inflation has returned to the range targeted by the Bank and endorsed by the Government. Several factors have contributed to the easing of inflationary pressures, including a relatively firm exchange rate and low inflation rates abroad. Slower growth of average wages in the latest figures is, however, of most significance for the Board's view of the inflation outlook over the next year. The economy-wide measure of ordinary-time earnings rose by 3.5 per cent over the year to the September quarter, a pace which, if sustained, is compatible with maintaining 2\'963 per cent inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's view is that monetary policy should not stand in the way of higher growth if the economy has the capacity to achieve that growth without threatening the low inflation objective. In current circumstances, with employment growth moderate and with unemployment still relatively high, the scope for stronger growth ought to be ample.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over the past year, the Bank has, on several occasions, expressed some disquiet about the rate of increase in wages and salaries negotiated through enterprise agreements and with executives. This concern remains. In the private sector, these increases are running at more than 5 per cent and, unlike price inflation and economy-wide measures of wages, have shown no evidence of slowing. The moderation in average wage costs was achieved only because other employees have received relatively small rises, a situation which may not be sustainable. There is clearly a need for some slowing in the wage increases produced by enterprise bargains. The return of underlying inflation to around 2\'bd per cent \'96 its average over the past five years \'96 should reassure those involved in wage and salary negotiations that the already lengthy period of low inflation will be sustained, and provide confidence to negotiate on that basis. Failure to do so would inevitably result in slower employment growth than would otherwise be possible.\cb1 \
\cb2 The easings in monetary policy announced in July and today have resulted in reductions in short-term interest rates of 1 percentage point, and long-term yields have fallen by 1\'be percentage points since June. If today's cut flows through as the Bank expects, mortgage interest rates will have returned to their low point of mid 1994, and business lending rates will be less than a percentage point above their low point of two years ago. These favourable financial developments should improve cash flows of both business and household borrowers, and provide increased impetus to spending and confidence.\
\
Following on from the improvement in the inflation outlook, the Board has decided to reduce interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 From today, the cash rate target for the Bank's domestic market operations will be reduced by 0.5 per cent, to around 7 per cent. This follows deliberations at the Board meeting yesterday, and consultations with the Treasurer. The decision reflects the Board's judgment that underlying inflation is consistent with the 2\'963 per cent objective, and its view that the economy has the capacity to grow a little faster than at present without threatening this objective.\cb1 \
\cb2 Last week's CPI figure showed a further reduction in underlying inflation, to 3.1 per cent in the year to the June quarter. That figure was held up by the relatively large increase in the September quarter a year ago. Over the first half of 1996, inflation was running at an annual rate of around 2\'bd per cent. Most other price indicators are showing lower rates; the Statistician's series of manufacturing prices, for example, has shown virtually no increase in domestically produced final goods prices over the past year. The Bank's forecasts suggest that both underlying and headline inflation will be in the 2\'963 per cent range for some time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking further ahead, of all the factors influencing future inflation, the most important will be wages and salaries. Growth in adult ordinary time earnings (AWOTE) has fallen from over 5 per cent a year ago, to less than 4 per cent now. The current rate of increase in AWOTE is consistent with delivering 2\'963 per cent inflation in the period ahead. Recent and prospective reductions in inflation, together with today's consequential interest rate reduction, should help wage negotiators to reach moderate wage and salary outcomes, with important benefits for industry competitiveness and employment. The Bank will be monitoring wage negotiations from the perspective of their consistency with the 2\'963 per cent inflation objective; it will be ready to increase interest rates if wage and salary developments get out of line with that objective.\cb1 \
\cb2 The present level of interest rates was established in December 1994, when the economy was running more strongly than it is now. The earlier downward trend in unemployment has largely stalled over the past year, at around 8\'bd per cent. Some pick-up in the pace of economic activity from current levels is expected over the year ahead but, in the Board's view, there is scope to grow a little faster without rekindling inflationary pressures. The reduction in rates will help to buoy the economy, and make more progress over the year ahead in reducing unemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Today's action by the Reserve Bank in no way diminishes the urgency of the task confronting the Government of reducing the budget deficit. As the Bank has emphasised on many occasions, further progress in reducing the budget deficit is critical to both increasing national saving and delivering lower interest rates over the medium term.\
\
Following discussions with the Board, the Bank will act in the money market this morning to reduce the cash rate by 50 basis points, to 5.0 per cent. This change, like the four previous reductions in interest rates over the past year, is based on the improving picture for Australia's medium-term inflation performance, which opens up scope for faster growth in output and employment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent good news on prices and wages confirms the absence of inflationary pressures in most segments of the Australian economy. Over the year to the June quarter the underlying rate of consumer price inflation was 1.7 per cent. Measures of inflation at the producer level, and indications of price increases from the range of business surveys, generally confirm this picture.\cb1 \
\cb2 Prices of traded goods have fallen over the past year, and inflationary pressures generated domestically have also been declining, as reflected in smaller price increases for domestically produced goods and services of late. Recent data on average earnings suggest that the upward pressures on wages that were still being felt in 1996 are now subsiding. Some of the easing in prices and wages, no doubt, reflects the lagged effect of slower growth last year, but it is also clear that inflationary expectations in the Australian community have taken a further step down. The Bank currently forecasts that inflation, in underlying terms, will remain below 2 per cent into 1998.\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic growth in 1997 has been picking up, but remains moderate. Unemployment has been flat over the past year and utilisation of capital in goods-producing industries is well down on peak levels. As a result, there appears to be relatively little risk of encountering capacity constraints over the next year or two, even if growth were stronger than expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy cannot fine-tune the cycle or manufacture sustained high rates of real growth. Given the current conjuncture, however, monetary policy should not stand in the way of a period of stronger growth that can be accommodated without breaching the inflation objective. Indeed, one attraction of an inflation targeting regime is that it requires the central bank to re-assess policy when the forecast profile of inflation is below the objective. In reaching a decision, the Bank has also had to be mindful of the fact that earlier interest rate reductions are still working their way through the economy. Its judgment, however, is that the balance of risks at this time is such as to favour this further easing of monetary policy.\cb1 \
\cb2 The crucial test for monetary policy is to have the setting that will best contribute to low inflation and economic growth in the long run. For many in the financial markets, most attention seems to be devoted to picking the exact day when a change in monetary policy will occur, something which would be made easier if the Bank were to follow a rule such as changing monetary policy on the day following the Board meeting. Despite its simplicity, this has never become standard practice because of its lack of flexibility; only eight of the 22 changes made since 1990 have occurred on the day following the Board meeting. On this occasion, the good CPI and wages data led to a presumption of a further reduction in interest rates. As a result, the Bank decided to confer, ahead of the routine meeting, with Board members to seek their views on the stance and timing of policy. Today's announcement reflects that consultation. With the Board agreed on the need for a half-point reduction in interest rates, and with this fully factored into financial prices, there seemed to be no point in delaying the implementation for another week.\
\
Following consideration at the Board meeting earlier in the month, the Bank will operate in the money market today to reduce the cash rate from 6.0 per cent to 5.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Underlying inflation in Australia has been about 2 per cent over the past year, and the Bank's assessment is that it will fall below 2 per cent in coming quarters. In line with this fall in recorded inflation, measures of inflationary expectations have also fallen in recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic activity is picking up from the second half of last year. Employment growth is still subdued, although forward-looking data suggest some firming in labour-market conditions ahead. Overall, 1997 looks like being a year of stronger growth than 1996. Longer-term prospects for growth are also good, and are helped by the ongoing fiscal consolidation confirmed in the recent Budget. At the same time, this growth does not seem likely to put upward pressure on inflation in the next year or two.\cb1 \
\cb2 The above considerations \'96 namely, inflation forecast to fall below 2 per cent, and economic activity providing scope for further expansion \'96 amount to a prima facie case for an easing in policy. Such a judgment, however, also depends on the longer-term outlook for inflation, and here domestic costs, particularly wages, become a key consideration. Recently, this has been an area of some uncertainty as the data have been difficult to interpret and subject to revision.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's \'91on-balance\'92 assessment is that the current pace of growth of labour costs, although not yet optimal for an economy with inflation as low as ours, has shown sufficient moderation over the medium term to permit a further easing of policy. Recent decisions by the Industrial Relations Commission, particularly the Safety-Net Review, have helped in this respect, and removed one factor which could have pushed up aggregate wages. Increases obtained in enterprise bargains appear to have moderated slightly in recent quarters. The results of the survey of average weekly earnings, particularly ordinary-time earnings in the latest figures, seem to be consistent with the maintenance of a satisfactory inflation performance. Allowing for the fact that public-sector figures (and hence total figures) are almost certainly overstated by compositional distortions, our assessment is that earnings growth is approximately 4 per cent and steady, rather than the nearly 4\'bd per cent and rising that seemed to be the case. In the private sector, earnings growth appears to be a little below that.\cb1 \
\cb2 Our overall assessment of wage bargaining still recognises that some settlements remain higher than seems likely to be sustainable over the longer term. Pay settlements of 5 per cent, except in unusual circumstances, are likely to be too high, given our level of unemployment.\
\
Following a decision by the Board at yesterday's meeting, the Bank will be acting in the money market this morning to reduce the cash rate by 25 basis points to 4.75 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 In evaluating the stance of monetary policy, the Board recognised that the degree of steadiness shown so far had served the economy well, but that accumulating evidence was now pointing towards the advisability of a small reduction in interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 The past year has seen an unusual degree of turmoil in international financial markets, but the underlying trend in the international economy has been towards lower growth, lower inflation and lower world interest rates. Bond yields have fallen in line with the lower inflationary expectations, while at the short end, rates have fallen as a result of the easing of monetary policy in a number of countries. There now seems to be widespread agreement that 1999 will see a significant slowdown in world growth. While recent indicators do not suggest any worsening in the outlook, it still seems reasonable to base decisions on the assumption that global growth will be slower and global inflation low.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the medium term, Australian monetary policy aims to achieve an average inflation rate of somewhere between 2 and 3 per cent. Inflation has recently been running below 2 per cent, but our forecasts point to some further pick-up, as measured by the CPI on a four-quarter-ended basis, as a result of the decline in the exchange rate over the past 18 months. It seems unlikely at this stage, however, that inflation will rise above 3 per cent and the near-term peak could be well short of that, although any forecast of inflation is only as good as its underlying assumption about the exchange rate. Medium-term inflation outcomes appear likely to be consistent with the target.\cb1 \
\cb2 To date, domestic economic activity has continued to expand at a solid pace, in part reflecting the supportive stance of monetary policy: interest rates faced by borrowers are near thirty-year lows. In fact, the bulk of recent economic indicators suggest that growth at present may be exceeding earlier forecasts, and business confidence has tended to improve over recent months. However, with a significant decline in world growth predicted by most forecasters, it is still likely that growth in Australia will slow, at least temporarily, during 1999. This is likely to be accompanied by an increase in the current account deficit.\cb1 \
\cb2 It is unrealistic to expect that monetary policy can fine tune either growth or inflation outcomes over the next year. Some decline in growth is unavoidable, given the international circumstances. The continuing good inflation performance, however, and the economy's capacity to grow without generating additional inflationary pressure, mean that it is appropriate to offer some additional support to growth through the adoption of a more accommodative monetary policy stance.\
\
Following a decision by the Board at yesterday's meeting, the Bank will be acting in the money market this morning to increase the cash rate by 25 basis points, to 5.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The international economic environment has improved considerably since last December, when the previous adjustment to monetary policy was made. At that time, world growth was expected to be weak, global inflation was tending to fall and international interest rates were declining. The likelihood of some decline in Australia's growth and the continuing very low inflation allowed scope for monetary policy to move in the expansionary direction. As things have turned out, global growth this year has been a good deal stronger than expected, and a further strengthening appears likely in 2000. Most of Australia's Asian trading partners are in recovery, and global disinflationary forces have abated. The Australian economy is growing faster than the Bank or most other forecasters had expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 At the same time, inflation has now returned to the 2\'963 per cent target zone, after a lengthy period of being below target. The CPI increased by 1.7 per cent over the year to the September quarter. This figure was held down by the effects of the health care rebate; abstracting from this, the CPI increase was a little over 2 per cent over the year. Some of the increase in inflation has come from higher oil prices, but core or underlying measures of inflation, which exclude oil prices, have also run at about 2 per cent over the past year. Some further gradual increase in inflation is likely over the next two or three quarters.\cb1 \
\cb2 The stance of monetary policy has been expansionary over the past couple of years. Interest rates in real and nominal terms for virtually all borrowers have been below the low points reached in the early 1990s, and credit growth has been strong. This was the appropriate setting of policy through the period when the forces affecting the economy from abroad were contractionary. The need for such an expansionary setting has now passed, and accordingly, the Board has decided to increase cash rates modestly, so as to take policy to a less expansionary setting.\cb1 \
\cb2 This adjustment will not bring to an end the current expansion, now in its ninth year, nor is it designed to do so. On the contrary, it is designed to keep the setting of policy attuned to the economy's changing needs, so as to maintain inflation of 2\'963 per cent over the medium term. This will prolong the expansion, and a long, steady expansion offers the best chance to achieve further progress in reducing unemployment.\
\
Following a decision made by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be operating in the money market this morning to raise the cash rate by 25 basis points, to 6.25 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 In reaching its decision the Board considered a range of factors bearing on the outlook for the Australian economy and for inflation in particular.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Over the past twelve months economic growth and inflation have been higher than forecast. The broadest economy-wide measures of activity \'96 GDP and employment growth \'96 point to an economy that continues to perform strongly. Although growth in some areas of domestic demand, e.g. housing, is falling, the value of exports has risen by 28 per cent during the past year and the robust world economy will assist further growth. The value of imports has also risen strongly over the past year (21 per cent) reflecting trends in domestic demand.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Measures of underlying inflation are now around 2\'bd per cent. This is within the target band but the trend has been upwards for a year or so and some further upward drift is likely to occur. Producer price indexes suggest increased upstream inflationary pressure. Excluding the direct effects of oil prices, output prices of the manufacturing sector rose by over 4\'bd per cent in the year to June, their fastest rate of increase for about a decade.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The rise in the Consumer Price Index of 3.2 per cent over the year to the June quarter was affected by higher international oil prices. Australia's flexible inflation targeting regime accepts temporary deviations of this nature.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The rise in inflation has occurred despite a fairly benign trend in labour costs to date. The various indicators of wages are now showing disparate movements, complicating interpretation. The Board's view remains that wages growth is moderate, but that labour costs are likely to pick up in the year ahead in response to economic conditions, including higher price inflation (and the increase in the Superannuation Guarantee Charge).\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In assessing the impact of earlier changes in interest rates, the Board noted that the pace of credit expansion had risen in recent months. Credit outstanding grew by 13 per cent over the year to June, and at a rate of 15 per cent in the most recent six months. Credit to the household sector has continued to expand more rapidly, notwithstanding the recent increases in interest rates.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Published inflation statistics will be difficult to interpret in the period ahead because the CPI and the various underlying series will be influenced by the recently implemented changes to the tax system. The Board's intention is to abstract from the price-level effect of the tax changes and to seek to ensure that ongoing inflation remains consistent with the target once the tax changes have been absorbed. Taking into account the developments outlined above, the assessment was that the balance of risks had, in recent months, tilted somewhat further towards higher inflation. The Board therefore judged that a further tightening of monetary policy was warranted in seeking to limit the extent of such risks.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is conscious that the stance of monetary policy must contribute to achieving the medium-term inflation goal, but do so in a way that does not unnecessarily restrict economic activity. In making this decision, the Board was of the view that the level of real interest rates and of the real exchange rate would be supportive of sustainable growth in the economy. As has been the case with the earlier policy moves, the latest move aims to promote a continuation of sustainable growth by ensuring that inflation pressures remain contained.\
\
Following a decision made by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be raising the cash rate target by 25 basis points, to 6 per cent, effective immediately.\cb1 \
\cb2 At its meeting, the Board again considered the range of domestic and international factors relevant to monetary policy. Domestically:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
While some indicators of domestic demand suggest that growth rates have moderated from the very high rates in the second half of 1999, the Australian economy is benefiting from stronger exports and rising terms of trade.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
On the latest available data, the demand for credit, if anything, has strengthened so far in 2000. Credit growth over the year to March of 11\'9612 per cent, and over 16 per cent for households, remains above that which can be sustained in the long run. Gains in household wealth have been large, related mainly to the strong rise in dwelling prices. Readily-available, low-cost credit accommodated this increase.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Inflation in Australia as measured by the CPI has continued to increase. It rose towards the top of the target zone in March and is likely to remain there in the short term. The rise in petrol prices has played an important role. Recent trends in the US dollar price of oil suggest that this may now have run its course, with a small decline in petrol prices possible in the next quarter or two, depending on the course of the exchange rate. But a range of underlying measures of inflation, which are not distorted by energy prices and which give a better indication of the trend in consumer prices, show a gradual, but clear, pick-up. These are now about 2\'bc per cent, compared with a low of around 1\'bd per cent late in 1998. Expectations of inflation have also increased. Together with a gradual tightening in the labour market as indicated by survey data, this suggests that some pick-up in wage pressures could easily occur over the coming year or two.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 On the international front:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Global economic conditions are now much stronger than a year ago, and forecasts for global growth have been further upgraded in recent months. Share market developments to date have not caused any significant revision to the economic outlook.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Inflation and wage costs have picked up in the United States, and in some other countries there has been some rise in underlying inflation.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
World interest rates have continued to increase. The Board noted that most developed countries had now raised interest rates by between 100 and 150 basis points over recent months. While the bulk of this rise reflected a return to more normal levels of interest rates after the unusually low levels of 1998, for some countries exchange rate weakness was also adding to upward pressure on inflation and interest rates.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The exchange rate of the Australian dollar had fallen further.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 In the light of these developments, the Board assessed that the earlier increases in Australian interest rates were appropriate, and that the inflationary risks looking forward warranted a further small increase. In particular, the potential for a weak exchange rate to adversely affect domestic inflation had increased over the past month.\cb1 \
\cb2 To this extent, as was the case at the time of its decision to raise interest rates in April, the Board was concerned about the increased risks to inflation from international factors. This does not represent any change in the policy framework the Bank has been following for some years now, but a change in the environment in which policy operates. The Board recognised that there is, of course, no certain or mechanical relationship between interest rates and the exchange rate, but it assessed that instability will be reduced by the pursuit of policies which engender confidence among domestic and foreign investors that Australia will remain a low inflation country. Such an outcome is essential to ensuring the longevity of the current expansion.\
\
Following a decision by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be operating in the money market this morning to raise the cash rate by 25 basis points, to 5.75 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The fundamental reason why interest rates have risen in Australia and in most other developed countries over the past year is that the degree of monetary stimulus that was appropriate to earlier circumstances is no longer needed.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia's case the trend of economic activity has been strong in recent years, even during a period in which the external environment was distinctly unfavourable, and which on all past experience would have been expected to lead to a marked decline in growth. Several forces were at work in producing this very favourable outcome. One of them, in the Bank's judgment, was a relatively easy monetary stance. That monetary policy has been expansionary is quite clear from the rate of growth of borrowing, the level of interest rates in real and nominal terms, and developments in asset markets. This type of policy stance was appropriate when the external influences were contractionary and where inflation had fallen below the 2\'963 per cent medium-term objective for policy.\cb1 \
\cb2 It was never likely, however, that such low interest rates could persist indefinitely: as an economy's circumstances change, so does the level of interest rates which is appropriate. While there is no evidence of widespread overheating in the Australian economy, some areas point to incipient pressures. Credit, especially to households, is growing quickly, and speculative activity in asset markets has increased, although to nowhere near the same extent as in the late 1980s. In some areas skill shortages have emerged. Pressure for higher wage rises appears to be building, even though wages growth to date has been restrained.\cb1 \
\cb2 When the March quarter CPI becomes available later this month, it is likely to show CPI inflation running above 2\'bd per cent, and it could be higher by mid-year. Some of this pick-up is driven by oil prices, just as the very low inflation figures of a year or two ago were driven in part by falling oil prices. But the tendency for somewhat higher inflation is also clear from the range of core inflation measures.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent behaviour of the exchange rate also points to the need for some monetary adjustment. Until recently, purely domestic medium-term considerations were the major reason behind monetary policy moves, and relativities with the rest of the world played only a minor part. With the fall in the exchange rate over the past two months, however, international financial developments have assumed a more important role. The fall has occurred in the face of a strengthening world economy, which ordinarily would be expected to put upward pressure on the currency. The Bank's reading of this development is that it reflects an assessment by market participants that monetary policy settings in Australia have been, and could continue to be, more accommodating relative to other countries than is justified by our relative economic performance. This is in marked contrast to the exchange rate's fall in 1998 which was driven by a real factor genuinely beyond Australia's control, namely the contraction in our export markets.\cb1 \
\cb2 The level of the exchange rate is not an end in itself, but is important insofar as it can affect future inflation, an important consideration under an inflation targeting framework. As it turned out, the fall in the exchange rate in 1998 had little discernible effect on inflation because it occurred at a time of pronounced disinflationary, or even in some cases deflationary, pressure in markets for internationally traded goods and services. On this occasion, however, the global and domestic environments are different. Disinflationary forces abroad are likely to be waning, and domestic inflation already is noticeably higher than it was in 1998. Hence a weak exchange rate cannot be assumed to be so benign.\cb1 \
\cb2 With the world economy growing strongly, and forecast to remain buoyant, the Bank's judgment is that the Australian economy should continue to experience good growth. Growth in domestic demand is coming back to a more sustainable pace from the high rates of last year, but exports are picking up. Trends in employment and vacancies suggest that the labour market is buoyant, and credit growth to households and business is strong. While some slowing in consumption was expected, the recent fall in retail trade was a surprise. Nevertheless, the Bank's judgment is that when looking at the economy as a whole, the picture is one of strength rather than weakness.\cb1 \
\cb2 But the decision to increase rates is motivated not so much by a particular view of the short-term strength of economic activity as by the gradual shift in the balance of risks to the medium-term outlook which has occurred over the past year. This balance now tilts more in the direction of inflation concerns, and less in the direction of concerns over the economy's growth prospects, than it did.\cb1 \
\cb2 As the Bank has stated on numerous occasions, the ultimate goal of macroeconomic policies is to maximise the length of the expansion. The measures the Bank has been taking over recent months are designed to achieve that outcome.\
\
Following a decision by the Board at yesterday's meeting, the Bank will be acting in the money market this morning to increase the cash rate by 50 basis points, to 5.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the three months since the Bank last made an adjustment to interest rates, the international economic environment has strengthened further, with world growth outcomes in 1999 ahead of most expectations, and forecasts for 2000 being revised up again. Inflation rates have also increased, principally due to higher oil prices. In most countries, central banks have continued a process of gradually increasing short-term interest rates from unusually low levels reached a year ago.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy, likewise, has continued to record stronger growth than had been expected. Household spending in particular has remained exceptionally robust, supported by income gains flowing from the strong employment growth, with the high level of vacancies indicating this is likely to continue. Spending has also been boosted by substantial gains in wealth, much of it coming from buoyant housing prices. With credit inexpensive and freely available, households have availed themselves of the opportunity to borrow so that credit to this sector has grown by over 15 per cent in the most recent twelve months, and more quickly in the second half of the period. Business surveys suggest that, despite some differences across sectors, conditions overall are very favourable. Indicators of capacity utilisation are approaching previous cyclical highs, and respondents to surveys are starting to report increasing difficulty in finding suitable staff.\cb1 \
\cb2 At the same time, the unusually low inflation rates of 1997 and 1998 have now passed. Although the recent CPI was lower than expected, inflation as measured by the CPI is rising, and likely to be in the upper half of the 2 to 3 per cent target zone by mid year. Some of the increase is due to the direct effects of higher international oil prices, but measures of core or underlying inflation, which are not distorted by such impacts, are presently running between 2.1 and 2.4 per cent. Wages growth has to date remained moderate, but some recent developments point to higher wage demands in the future.\cb1 \
\cb2 During the period ahead, growth is likely to remain strong, particularly given the improved environment for exports. While future growth rates will no doubt be subject to the normal quarterly variation, a significant slowdown is unlikely \'96 previous expectations of a slowdown have persistently proved unfounded, even when there were stronger reasons than there are now to expect one. It is more likely that with growth and confidence high, and with the economy in the ninth year of its expansion, inflationary pressures will tend to build up as the year progresses. In these circumstances the Bank considers that it would be unwise to continue with the expansionary monetary policy setting which has been in place until now.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have for some time been expecting an increase in interest rates, and speculating about the possible size of the move on this occasion. In the Bank's view, a rise of half a percentage point makes sense, both in light of the economic outlook, and of the opportunity it gives to signal that monetary policy has been moved to a neutral stance, given the current economic outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 This tightening, like its predecessor in November, can be viewed as pre-emptive in that it has occurred before overheating has emerged, and its aim is to prevent that eventuality from occurring. It will not bring the expansion to an end, but is intended to avoid the build-up in the sort of imbalances which in the past have been responsible for that result. Prolonging the expansion is the major contribution that monetary policy can make to further reducing unemployment and raising living standards.\
\
Following a decision taken by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be acting in the money market this morning to reduce the cash rate by a further 25 basis points, to 4.25 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 International economic conditions remain weak, with the US and Japanese economies in recession, growth in Europe stalled and significant contractions over the past year in a number of Australia's east Asian trading partners. On the basis of the most recent set of forecasts available, 2001 and 2002 together will record the weakest growth among the major countries since the early 1980s. At the same time, however, the risk of an even larger international contraction, which appeared to increase after the events of mid September, has abated somewhat recently. The rapid easing of monetary policy in major countries, and the large decline in oil prices, are both helping to set the conditions for recovery commencing during the year ahead. In response to these developments, financial markets around the world have recently displayed a good deal more confidence, with share prices and interest rates rising. Even so, the timing and speed of a recovery in international conditions are as yet far from clear.\cb1 \
\cb2 On the Bank's estimate, the Australian economy has grown at an annualised rate of about 3 per cent so far in 2001. The housing expansion, together with some recovery in non-dwelling construction, will continue to assist growth in the short term. But the dampening impact on other parts of the economy of global events will become increasingly clear during 2002, at a time when the housing upswing will begin to moderate. Provided that consumer spending and business investment hold up, the Australian economy can be expected to continue recording better growth over the year ahead than other comparable countries, but at a rate below its longer-run potential.\cb1 \
\cb2 As a result, the appreciable degree of spare capacity which has built up over the past year is likely to persist. This can be expected to impart a degree of downward pressure on inflation, which will become more apparent as the temporary effects of the exchange rate decline fade. Most measures of wages already hint at a peak in the growth of labour costs, and international prices are falling. Hence the Bank's judgement is that, despite higher prices in particular areas such as insurance, and air travel, inflation will decline during the second half of 2002.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board judged that these considerations pointed to the advisability of a further modest easing in monetary policy, notwithstanding the fact that conditions were already quite accommodative relative to historical experience. This will support growth in domestic demand, at a time when international conditions are weak, and will be consistent with achieving the inflation target over the medium term.\
\
Following a decision taken by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be operating in the money market this morning to reduce the cash rate by 25 basis points, to 4.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The statement accompanying the previous easing in monetary policy on 5 September explained that international economic conditions had weakened over recent months. Information becoming available since that time, mainly covering the period to August, has confirmed that trend. In addition, the terrorist attacks on the United States on 11 September will result in further short-term weakness in the US and, to a lesser extent, other countries. The easing of monetary policy by major central banks in the past few weeks will improve the prospects for a resumption of stronger growth in due course. But global economic growth over the next twelve months is likely to be weaker than previously envisaged.\cb1 \
\cb2 Prospects in Australia seem, in contrast, to be relatively positive in the near term. GDP grew at an annualised rate of over 3 per cent in the first half of 2001, even though the construction upswing had barely begun. Indicators of business conditions have continued to improve in the subsequent months, as the housing pick-up prompts stronger demand from suppliers in the manufacturing sector, a process likely to continue for some time. Confidence measures will doubtless be adversely affected to some extent by international events, particularly in some of the services sectors, but overall, Australia's growth performance will most likely be quite solid in the short term. Slightly further out, however, the dampening effects of the international weakness will be felt, and even with the very low exchange rate providing substantial incentive to trade-exposed sectors of the economy, net exports are unlikely to contribute as much to growth as they did over the past year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Developments in financing and asset markets are now providing a more mixed picture than had formerly been the case. Equity prices have declined, corporate profits have softened and demand for credit by businesses has weakened. While the possibility of further rises in house prices remains a concern, the likelihood of a major surge has diminished with the weaker economic outlook and the build-up in supply of rental properties.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's view on the inflation outlook remains much as described in the most recent Statement on Monetary Policy. Underlying inflation is likely to be at or somewhat above the top of the 2-3 per cent target zone over the next couple of quarters, as the effects of the decline in the exchange rate are gradually reflected in the level of consumer prices. In the medium term, however, a decline in inflation to rates consistent with the target is likely to occur, given that labour costs remain well contained and global inflation pressures are subsiding.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board judged that, on balance, a further easing of monetary policy at this time was warranted. This action will support domestic demand at a time when international demand is slowing, and will be consistent with achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
Following a decision taken by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be operating in the money market this morning to reduce the cash rate by a further 25 basis points to 4.75 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 International economic conditions have been weaker than expected in recent months. The US and European economies stopped growing in the middle of the year, while a number of economies in Asia are experiencing recession. Most observers still expect a turn for the better in the period ahead, but the timing of this is being pushed back. The weakness in global demand is likely to be sufficient to impart some downward pressure on prices for internationally traded products. Prices for a range of commodities have already weakened, though those most important for Australia remain relatively strong.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, domestic demand has resumed its steady upward path after the temporary decline in the second half of 2000. A recovery in dwelling investment activity is well in train, and this should be reflected in firmer labour market conditions in due course. Business and consumer confidence are a good deal higher than earlier in the year, and various policy initiatives have been playing a part in encouraging this development. The Australian economy will, nonetheless, be affected by the recent deterioration in the international environment. Softening in some categories of exports can already be observed.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent data have indicated somewhat higher inflation than appeared to be the case late last year. The Bank's assessment, as spelled out in the recent Statement on Monetary Policy, is that this principally reflects the stepped up pass through of the lower exchange rate. It is likely that this process will continue for a while, but in the slightly longer term inflation is likely to decline again, given that wages growth remains well contained and the economy still has a degree of spare capacity. Developments abroad increase the likelihood of lower inflation over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 These considerations suggest that, in line with the medium-term inflation targeting approach, some easing of monetary policy is called for. In reaching its decision, the Board carefully weighed one other factor, namely the rapid pace of borrowing by households and the associated pressure on house prices. A further reduction in interest rates runs some risk, at the margin, of unnecessarily boosting this trend in the short term. But this risk has to be set against those which would come over the medium term from not responding to the likely effects of the continuing weakness abroad. On balance, the Board's judgement is that prospects for maintaining the economy's good medium-term performance will be improved by today's action.\
\
Following a decision taken by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be operating in the money market this morning to reduce the cash rate by a further 50 basis points to 5.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The most recent information suggests that the trend towards weaker international economic conditions has continued. This is being led by the United States, where business and consumer confidence has weakened noticeably against the background of a rapidly falling share market. A number of other countries, including importantly for Australia those in east Asia, have also recently shown signs of slower economic growth. World interest rates are declining in response to these conditions.\cb1 \
\cb2 Real GDP fell in the December quarter, resulting in a small net decline in activity over the second half of 2000. The fall in dwelling investment, the speed of which was unprecedented and unexpected, explains this result. This housing downturn was a temporary factor, albeit a large one, and that sector should recover in the course of 2001. But in the interim, indirect impacts of the housing downturn are being felt in other parts of the economy. Hence, overall growth is well below longer-run potential, which is likely to keep inflationary pressures controlled in the short term, even though the exchange rate has fallen further in recent months and wages growth has edged higher.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board remains firmly of the view that the economy's medium-term growth prospects are very good, but recognises that two risks to short-term growth exist. The first comes from the weaker world economy. Against this, the exchange rate gives a major competitive edge to the traded sector. The second risk is that, notwithstanding strong medium-term prospects for growth, confidence could weaken in such a way as to further dampen domestic demand in the short term. The Board views it as prudent for monetary policy to help support domestic demand under such circumstances. Today's action, together with the earlier reductions in interest rates, is directed to that end.\
\
Following a decision taken by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be acting in the money market this morning to reduce the cash rate by 25 basis points to 5.50 per cent. In deciding to make this additional move, following the reduction of 50 basis points in February, the Board took into account the following main considerations.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Recent data on wage costs and inflation expectations have confirmed that the outlook for inflation is now more secure. As discussed in detail in the February Statement on Monetary Policy, the December quarter CPI suggested an underlying inflation rate of around 2 per cent (excluding temporary effects of the GST and petrol prices), with the prospect that it would rise only modestly from that level in the period ahead. Hence, the Bank assesses that the risks of inflation exceeding the target in the foreseeable future are low.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Domestic economic data suggest that the economy weakened quite markedly towards the end of 2000 and remained weak in the first months of 2001. One factor is the one off transitional effect of the new tax system which brought a significant amount of construction forward into the first half of 2000 and consequently led to a sharp contraction in the second half of the year. But there is also evidence of softening of employment and domestic demand more broadly. While the transitional effects will soon fade, there is a risk that recent weakness, coupled with lower levels of business confidence now prevailing, could continue to dampen growth.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Prospects for the international economy have deteriorated further. In the United States, confidence has continued to decline, and new data in Japan have presented a distinctly weaker picture in recent months. Reflecting these trends, official and private sector forecasters have made further downward revisions to projected growth of the world economy in 2001. While Australian exporters continue to benefit from a highly competitive exchange rate, these international developments will make for a more difficult trading environment in the coming year.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Board believes that the Australian economy should show considerable resilience, even if the world economy is weaker. Despite recent falls, business profitability is still high, corporate balance sheets remain in good shape and credit is freely available. Unlike earlier expansions, the present one has not led to significant rises in price or wage inflation, clearly over valued asset prices or over investment and excess capacity. In addition, the settings of fiscal and monetary policy are both contributing to growth, and the level of the exchange rate has made the traded sector extremely competitive.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 On balance, the Board judged that a further shift in the stance of policy, towards a setting more supportive of growth, would now be beneficial to the economy.\
\
Following a decision taken by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be acting in the money market this morning to reduce the cash rate by 50 basis points to 5.75 per cent. This decision took note of four principal considerations:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Recent data show that consumer price inflation remains low, despite the lift in wholesale prices resulting from the decline in the exchange rate and the rise in raw materials and energy prices last year. While CPI inflation measured over the past four quarters still reflects the impact of the GST and the rise in petrol prices, underlying inflation net of those effects is estimated to be around 2 per cent, slightly lower than was the case in the middle of last year. Labour cost increases remain moderate; inflation expectations have fallen back after increasing last year; and the exchange rate has risen somewhat since late last year, though it remains quite low by historical standards. Even allowing for possible lagged effects of previous falls in the exchange rate on consumer prices in the year ahead, the Bank judges that the risk of exceeding the inflation target has declined materially, and expects CPI inflation to be within the target zone over the coming year.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Economic conditions abroad have deteriorated noticeably since last year. The United States economy has slowed more quickly than expected, after several years of exceptional strength. This has prompted a significant decline in US interest rates. Notwithstanding this, a slowing US economy can be expected to dampen growth in the world economy in 2001.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Business confidence has declined over recent months and the labour market has softened. Domestic demand, which was always expected to slow, is now running at a rate below that of earlier years. In part, this is a temporary effect due to the transitional response last year to tax reform which drew spending forward into the first half of the year, leaving demand weaker in the second half. Looking through the temporary effects, however, the path of demand and output now seems more moderate than earlier envisaged.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Despite areas of short-term weakness, the Australian economy still exhibits considerable resilience. While there are some signs that corporate profitability may have declined somewhat recently, profits overall remain strong. Corporate balance sheets are in good shape, and there is no sign of over investment having led to excess capacity. Credit growth has declined from its earlier rapid pace but credit remains readily available, and conditions in capital markets have not deteriorated in the way that can be observed in the US. The exchange rate has made exporters and import-competing sectors very competitive. In contrast to a number of countries, asset prices in Australia have not been bid up to unsustainably high levels. In addition, macroeconomic policies are favourable to growth. Interest rates, even before today's decision, were not high by historical standards. Fiscal policy is also exerting an expansionary influence on growth in the current year.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The Board judged that the balance of risks to the outlook over the next year had changed sufficiently to warrant a shift in the stance of monetary policy. With a weaker external environment in prospect, and with inflation contained, policy settings more supportive of domestic demand are now prudent. By keeping monetary policy attuned to the changing internal and external circumstances facing the economy, today's change in interest rates will assist in maintaining sustainable growth with low inflation.\
\
Following a decision taken by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be acting in the money market this morning to increase the cash rate by 25 basis points, to 4.75 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent indicators have confirmed that the global economic recovery under way since the beginning of the year is continuing, even though the pace of growth across the major regions is still uneven. In the United States, the strong GDP growth recorded in the first quarter has been followed by a number of indicators of further growth in spending and production, suggesting that a good second quarter result is in prospect. Hence, while the US outlook is still subject to some significant uncertainties, the recovery is continuing. Conditions in the Euro area have been firmer in recent months and the pace of growth has picked up further in most of the east Asian region. Although the Japanese economy has shown an extended period of weakness in the past few years, there have been signs recently of improved conditions, led by a pick-up in exports. Overall, these developments are consistent with expectations of ongoing recovery in the international economy during the course of this year.\cb1 \
\cb2 There has been further predominantly positive news on economic activity in Australia recently. Consumer spending is showing robust growth, supported by growth in incomes and by ongoing increases in wealth associated with rising house prices. These trends have also been associated with a continued rapid expansion of household debt. The recent strength of household spending has been assisted by high levels of consumer confidence, likely to have been boosted in recent months by firmer labour market conditions, with unemployment falling well below its recent cyclical peak. Business confidence, too, is at a high level, and businesses are reporting a substantial increase in planned investment in the coming year. With the international environment likely to continue improving, conditions overall should remain conducive to growth of the Australian economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia is close to the top of the target range. In the short term, the inflation rate is expected to decline moderately, principally reflecting an easing of import price increases. However, notwithstanding some dampening influence from the recent appreciation of the exchange rate, inflation pressures appear likely to continue in the longer term, in view of the stronger growth outlook that has emerged in the past few months.\cb1 \
\cb2 These recent developments, in sum, have continued the trends evident for some months, with the global economy recovering and the Australian economy expanding strongly. Against this background, the Board assessed that the case for moving to a less expansionary monetary policy setting remained in place. Today's action is aimed at reducing the risk of potential imbalances, and thereby promoting sustainable expansion of the economy with low inflation.\
\
Following a decision taken by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be acting in the money market this morning to increase the cash rate by 25 basis points, to 4.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 In recent months the economic climate has changed markedly, with firmer prospects now evident both in Australia and abroad. In the United States, the downturn that commenced early last year has proven to be milder, and of shorter duration, than had appeared likely a few months ago, and the US economy recorded strong growth in the March quarter. While more recent indicators suggest that the pace of growth in the United States will ease for a time, the recovery to date has clearly exceeded earlier expectations. There has also been an upturn among Australia's main trading partners in the east Asian region (with the important exception of Japan) and more tentative signs of recovery in Europe. Overall, although 2001 was a very weak year for the major economies, earlier fears of a more severe and protracted downturn have not been realised, and the outlook now is much more positive than was the case late last year.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy at present is outperforming other advanced economies by a wide margin, recording growth of more than 4 per cent during 2001, a time when aggregate growth in the major economies was close to zero. Growth has continued and confidence strengthened in 2002 to date, and the economy appears well placed to continue its strong performance in the period ahead. Businesses are expanding their investment plans, and household spending has continued to grow strongly, supported by an upturn in employment and by rising wealth associated with increases in house prices. The strong rises in house prices seen over recent years have also been associated with a rapid expansion in household debt, a process that carries longer-term risks if households become seriously over-extended.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's inflation rate, at 2.9 per cent, remains close to the top of the target range. Inflation seems to be flattening out, following a period in which it had been on a rising trend owing in part to the substantial depreciation of the Australian dollar over the 1997\'962000 period. There are signs that these exchange-rate effects are beginning to fade, and hence the prospects are for a moderate decline in inflation in the next few quarters. Over a longer horizon, however, it is likely that inflationary pressures will continue, as surplus capacity in the economy is gradually used up. This is a contrast to what was expected when the Bank reduced interest rates last year.\cb1 \
\cb2 In reviewing all these factors the Board's assessment was that the outlook no longer warranted a level of cash rates at the bottom of the range of recent experience. To persist with a strongly expansionary policy setting would risk amplifying inflation pressures and, over time, could fuel other imbalances such as the current overheating in the housing market, potentially jeopardising the economy's continued expansion. The Board judged that an increase in the cash rate would reduce these risks and, therefore, enhance the prospects for sustained growth consistent with the inflation target.\
\
Following a decision taken by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be operating in the money market this morning to increase the cash rate by 25 basis points, to 5.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 For an extended period, the setting of monetary policy in Australia has been mildly expansionary. This stance was, in the Board's judgment, the best response to a weak world economy, very low global interest rates, downside risks to growth at home, and contained inflation. However, the need for such a stance of policy has now passed. This assessment is based on several considerations:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Conditions in the international economy are clearly improving. The US economy is strengthening and growth in Japan is higher than expected. Most of east Asia is experiencing improved conditions and China continues to grow rapidly. Financial market pricing embodies more optimism about growth, and economic forecasts are being revised upwards. The appreciation of the Australian dollar must be seen against that backdrop.\cb1 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Australian economy, having slowed under the weight of reduced exports and drought, is now picking up. Strong domestic demand appears to be the main factor so far, with both consumption and business investment growing strongly. Business surveys indicate unexpected strength in the non-farm economy in recent months, and the labour market is firming. The farm sector, as a result of improved rainfall, will experience better conditions over the next year. Hence growth is likely to be above trend through the coming year, and spare capacity in the economy will tend to decline. The housing market continues to be buoyant. The effect of the rise in house prices over recent years is likely to be expansionary for the economy in the period ahead, as higher wealth is accessed to support household spending.\cb1 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In the short term, these developments are unlikely to make for significant problems on CPI inflation. Indeed, it will most likely decline for a time, as the effects of the appreciation of the exchange rate show up in retail prices. Over a longer horizon, inflation is currently expected to be consistent with the target, but the risks to that forecast are beginning to tilt upwards.\cb1 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The prevailing stance of policy has been expansionary, as is clear not only from the current low level of nominal and real interest rates, but also from the behaviour of borrowers. Credit outstanding is rising at around 14 per cent per year, and at over 20 per cent to households. That is a much faster rate of growth than can be expected to be consistent with economic stability over the longer run. Short periods of rapid credit growth have not typically been a major concern for monetary policy, but this growth has been sustained for some time and at present shows no sign of abating.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Given the above, the Board's view is that it is no longer prudent to continue with such an expansionary policy stance. The strength of demand for credit increases the danger associated with delaying a tightening of policy that is called for on general macroeconomic grounds.\
\
Following a decision taken by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be operating in the money market this morning to increase the cash rate by 25 basis points, to 5.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 For some time the Bank has been signalling that the cash rate would probably need to be moved higher during the current expansion. The decision to do so in March took into account the following main considerations:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Australian economy is now in the fourteenth year of an expansion which has made substantial inroads into the economy's surplus productive capacity. Over recent months, it has become increasingly clear that remaining spare capacity in the labour and goods markets is becoming rather limited.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This is now starting to result in stronger inflationary pressures. Price increases at the producer level picked up appreciably at all stages of production during the second half of 2004. Consumer price inflation, although currently consistent with the target, was higher than had been expected, and is forecast to increase to around 3 per cent by the end of next year. Continued pressure on raw materials prices, constraints on capacity and reports of higher employment costs \'96 notwithstanding the steadiness to date of aggregate wage measures \'96 constitute a risk that this forecast will prove to be too low.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Although Australia's GDP slowed during 2004, this does not appear to have reflected any deficiency in domestic or global demand. Domestic spending has been growing strongly for some time and the global economy last year grew at its fastest pace in more than a decade.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Conditions prevailing in Australia and abroad are likely to continue to encourage spending growth in the period ahead. The world economy is growing at a faster-than-average pace and world commodity prices are rising. In Australia, there are high levels of confidence in both the business and household sectors, credit growth is providing ample support for spending, employment is growing strongly and national income and spending will continue to be boosted this year by the rising terms of trade.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 In these circumstances, the Board judged that an increase in the cash rate was warranted in order to reduce the risk of an unacceptable rise in inflation in the medium term.\
\
Following a decision taken by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be operating in the money market this morning to increase the cash rate by 25 basis points, to 6.0 per cent. The decision reflects the Board's assessment that economic activity remains strong and that inflation pressures have increased.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth of the Australian economy is taking place against the background of strong international conditions. The world economy is in its fourth successive year of above-average growth, and official and private-sector forecasts are that this will continue next year, despite some moderation in the United States. The general strength of the global economy has been reflected in further increases in commodity prices since the start of the year. These increases have been broadly based and are adding to the growth in Australia's national income and spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 Despite regional differences, most indicators suggest that demand and output in Australia have strengthened over recent months. A favourable business climate, strong profitability and high levels of capacity usage are contributing to rapid growth in investment spending. Even with moderate growth in household spending, this has underpinned a solid rate of expansion in domestic demand and a pick-up in employment over recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Strong demand for finance over the past few months indicates that households and businesses have continued to find it attractive to borrow at recently prevailing interest rates. Compression of lending margins over recent years has contributed to a lowering of borrowing costs relative to the cash rate. This has meant that although the cash rate has recently been slightly above its average for the low-inflation period since 1993, interest rates paid by borrowers have remained below average.\cb1 \
\cb2 The growth of demand, against the background of an economy operating with limited spare capacity, has contributed to increased inflationary pressures this year, and businesses report that labour market conditions are tight. Raw materials costs have picked up as a result of broad-based increases in global commodity prices, and there has been a more general pick-up in output prices at all stages of production.\cb1 \
\cb2 These pressures have also been evident in underlying consumer price inflation. In the June quarter, underlying inflation is estimated to have picked up to a rate of just under 3 per cent, confirming the upward drift that had started to become apparent in the previous quarter. Although the increase in the headline CPI was much larger, reflecting fuel price increases and a sharp rise in the price of bananas in the wake of Cyclone Larry, the Board recognises that it is necessary to abstract from temporary influences in forming its policy assessments. Overall the Board's assessment, based on the gradual increase in underlying inflation this year, and the wider background of above-average global growth and strong domestic demand, was that underlying inflation in the period ahead was likely to exceed previous forecasts.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given these circumstances, the Board judged that an increase in the cash rate was warranted in order to contain inflation in the medium term.\
\
Following a decision taken by the Board at its meeting yesterday, the Bank will be operating in the money market this morning to increase the cash rate by 25\'a0basis points, to 5.75\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 International developments are continuing to provide stimulus to growth in Australia. The world economy is growing at an above-average pace for the fourth successive year and, significantly, forecasts have recently been revised upwards. Commodity prices have been increasing strongly for some time, and they have risen further in the year to date. This suggests a strengthening in the outlook for Australia's export earnings, with consequent expansionary effects on incomes and spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, domestic spending has been growing at a solid pace recently and prevailing conditions suggest that this is likely to continue. High profitability and rising share prices are indicative of a favourable business environment in which investment growth is likely to remain strong. There are also signs that the dampening effects of household balance-sheet adjustment on consumer spending are starting to wane.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent trends in credit growth indicate that households and businesses have continued to find it attractive to borrow at prevailing interest rates. After touching a low point in the September quarter, the growth of household credit has picked up over the two most recent quarters. Business credit growth has continued to trend upwards. A factor that is likely to have contributed to the overall strength of credit growth has been the continuing compression of lending margins by financial intermediaries over recent years, reflecting competition among lenders. As a consequence, although the cash rate has been close to its historical average, interest rates paid by borrowers have remained below average.\cb1 \
\cb2 These domestic and international trends have added to inflationary pressures in an economy that has been operating for some time with rather limited spare capacity and low unemployment. Wages growth, though not accelerating further recently, is higher than it was a year ago, and businesses are continuing to report that suitable labour is scarce. Raw materials costs continued to increase strongly in the March quarter, reflecting the general strength in global commodity prices. Consumer price inflation has picked up to around 3\'a0per\'a0cent in recent quarters. While this partly reflected rising fuel costs, underlying consumer price inflation also increased in the March quarter, to around 2\'be\'a0per\'a0cent, a rate it had not been expected to reach until the second half of the year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking all of these developments into account, the Board judged at its May meeting that inflationary risks had increased sufficiently to warrant an increase in the cash rate.\
\
At its meeting yesterday, the Board decided to leave the cash rate 
\f1\b unchanged
\f0\b0  at 6.75\'a0per cent. As part of wider changes to communication practices which the Board has adopted (see separate announcement on communication), it was further decided that a statement explaining the decision would be released.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information continues to indicate strength in demand and output in Australia, with the economy having relatively little surplus capacity. Inflation on a year ended basis, as measured by the CPI and underlying measures, is likely to be above 3\'a0per\'a0cent in the first half of 2008, and to decline somewhat thereafter.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sentiment in global credit markets has deteriorated recently after an earlier improvement and prospects for growth in the major economies appear to be weakening. It is unclear to what extent that will affect Asia, where conditions at this point look quite strong. But overall, it now appears likely that global growth will be closer to trend in 2008, after several years of above trend growth. High prices for food, energy and natural resources, however, continue to pose a significant risk to inflation around the world.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the pressures arising from the global financial turmoil have been less pronounced than elsewhere, and the flow of credit to sound borrowers does not appear to have been impaired. Nonetheless borrowing costs have risen appreciably since mid year, particularly for business borrowers, as a result both of changes in monetary policy and market-driven increases in funding costs for intermediaries. Depending on conditions in wholesale markets in the near term, some further rise in rates charged to borrowers may yet occur. These developments will help to contain private demand over the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board remains concerned about the outlook for inflation. But given the heightened uncertainty about the international outlook and the local trends in wholesale borrowing costs, both of which could have a bearing on inflation over the medium term, it judged that the current stance of monetary policy should be maintained for the time being.\cb1 \
\
\cb2 At its meeting yesterday, the Board decided to increase the cash rate by 25\'a0basis points to 6.75\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has increased. Underlying inflation was 0.9 per cent in the September quarter and close to 3\'a0per cent over the past year. The annual pace of CPI inflation was lower, but this reflected two very low quarterly results nearly a year ago, as well as recent changes to the treatment of child care costs. By the March quarter of next year, both headline and underlying measures of inflation are likely to be above 3 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 During 2007, the pace of growth of demand and output has also increased. There are few signs of that strength diminishing as yet, and reports of high capacity usage and shortages of suitable labour persist. Growth in labour costs has been contained so far, and high levels of investment are adding to productive capacity in some sectors. The rise in the exchange rate will help to contain pressure on prices. But growth in aggregate demand will, nonetheless, need to moderate if inflation is to be kept to 2\uc0\u8209 3\'a0per cent in the medium term.\cb1 \
\cb2 In reaching its decision, the Board continued to look carefully at developments in international financial markets. Conditions have improved over the past couple of months, but confidence remains fragile. Funding costs for intermediaries remain elevated relative to official interest rates, and capital market conditions are still difficult, in several major countries. This is likely to result in some moderation in growth in those countries in 2008, and forecasts for global growth have been revised down accordingly. The world economy is still expected to grow at an above-average pace, however, led by strong growth in China and other parts of Asia. High global commodity prices remain an important source of stimulus to Australian spending and activity.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the tightening in credit conditions resulting from the global turmoil has been less pronounced than elsewhere. Wholesale funding costs have risen a little compared with official rates, and some borrowers have experienced an increase in interest costs as a result, but the flow of credit to sound borrowers does not appear to have been impaired.\cb1 \
\cb2 Having weighed both the international and domestic information available, the Board judged that a further increase in the cash rate was needed now in order to contain inflation in the medium term.\
\
At its meeting yesterday, the Board decided to increase the cash rate by 25 basis points to 6.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Domestic economic data in recent months have signalled a pick-up in the pace of growth in demand and activity. Capacity utilisation is high after a lengthy period of expansion, and unemployment over recent months has continued to decline. Business and household confidence are strong. The demand for finance has strengthened, even apart from the temporary surge in June, particularly in the business sector. These conditions have been accompanied recently by higher-than-expected underlying inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 In assessing the outlook, the Board gave careful consideration to recent developments in the global economy and financial markets. Credit markets in the US have experienced some turbulence in recent weeks, which may pose downside risks to the US economy. While this will need to be kept under review, developments to date do not appear to have changed significantly the broader global outlook. Even with the US slowing down, forecasts of global growth have recently been revised upward. High world commodity prices remain an important source of stimulus to Australia's national income and spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 For some months, the Board has recognised that stronger economic conditions were likely to put upward pressure on inflation, notwithstanding some dampening influence from the higher exchange rate. As a result, the Board has been of the view that further monetary policy tightening could be required. The main factors that had allowed time for further consideration were that, prior to this month, the two most recent inflation results had been unexpectedly subdued, and wages growth had remained moderate. However, the high CPI outcome for the June quarter indicated a less favourable near-term outlook, with the implication that any further increases in inflation would take place from a higher starting point than previously envisaged.\cb1 \
\cb2 Based on these considerations, the Board judged that a somewhat more restrictive monetary policy setting was required in order to keep inflation consistent with the target in the medium term.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to reduce the cash rate by 75\'a0basis points to 5.25\'a0per cent, effective 5\'a0November\'a02008.\cb1 \
\cb2 World financial markets have remained turbulent over the past month. Global equity prices have been volatile and fell further in net terms, and there have been significant exchange rate movements, including a sharp depreciation of the Australian dollar. \'a0A number of governments have announced measures to strengthen their financial systems, which should help to stabilise conditions over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 International economic data have continued to point to significant weakness in the major industrial economies, and there have been further signs that China and other parts of the developing world are slowing as well. These conditions have contributed to further falls in world commodity prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the overall path of economic activity appears until recently to have been close to what the Board had expected, with a needed moderation in demand occurring after a period of earlier strength. Recent reductions in borrowing rates, the depreciation of the exchange rate and the fiscal stimulus announced in October will work to assist growth in the period ahead, but deteriorating international conditions and falling commodity prices will have a dampening influence. On balance, it appears likely that spending and activity will be weaker than earlier expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 Consumer price inflation in Australia remained high in the September quarter. As expected, CPI inflation in year\uc0\u8209 ended terms picked up to 5\'a0per cent, while underlying measures were just over 4\'bd\'a0per cent. \'a0Nonetheless, capacity pressures are now easing and, given the outlook for more moderate growth in demand and activity, it is reasonable to expect that inflation in Australia will soon start to fall. Global disinflationary forces will assist in this regard, though the depreciation of the exchange rate means that the decline of inflation to the target could take longer than would otherwise be the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 Weighing up these international and domestic developments, the Board judged that a further significant reduction in the cash rate was warranted. The Board will continue to monitor developments and make adjustments as needed to promote sustainable growth consistent with achieving the 2\'963\'a0per cent inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 100 basis points to 6.0\'a0per cent, effective 8\'a0October\'a02008.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in international financial markets took a significant turn for the worse in September. Large-scale financial failures in several major countries were accompanied by serious dislocation in interbank markets and heightened instability in other markets, including sharp falls in share prices. Official actions in a number of countries have been aimed at restoring stability, by adding to short-term liquidity and laying a foundation for longer-term recovery in the health of balance sheets. Nonetheless, financing is likely to be difficult around the world for some time ahead. This is also affecting Australia, albeit by less than in many other countries, given the relative strength of the local banking system.\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic activity in the major countries is also weakening, and evidence is accumulating of a significant moderation in growth in Australia's trading partners in Asia. The expansionary effects of the recent surge in Australia's terms of trade are still coming through, but some decline in the terms of trade now looks likely over the coming year, with many commodity prices having declined from their peaks. This, combined with the likelihood of below-trend growth in the global economy, suggests that global inflation will moderate in 2009.\cb1 \
\cb2 Thus far, the overall path of economic activity in Australia appears to have been close to what the Board had expected, with the needed moderation in demand occurring. The next CPI is likely to show an increase of around 5\'a0per cent over the four quarters to September, but the Bank remains of the view that inflation will start to decline in 2009.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent deterioration in prospects for global growth, together with much more difficult market conditions even for creditworthy borrowers, now present the risk that demand and output could be significantly weaker than earlier expected. Should that occur, inflation would most likely fall faster than earlier forecast.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given that background, the Board judged that a material change to the balance of risks surrounding the outlook had occurred, requiring a significantly less restrictive stance of monetary policy. The Board also took careful note of movements in funding costs in wholesale markets. Having weighed these considerations, the Board decided that, on this occasion, an unusually large movement in the cash rate was appropriate in order to bring about a significant reduction in costs to borrowers. The Board does not, however, regard that movement as establishing a pattern for future decisions.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board will continue to assess prospects for demand and inflation over the period ahead, and set monetary policy as needed to bring inflation back to the 2\'963\'a0per cent target over time.\
\
At its meeting today the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25 basis points to 7.0\'a0per cent, effective 3\'a0September.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has been high over the past year in an environment of limited spare capacity and earlier strong growth in demand. In these circumstances, the Board has been seeking to restrain demand in order to reduce inflation over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 As a result of increases in the cash rate last year and early this year, additional rises in market interest rates and tougher credit standards, financial conditions have been quite tight. Some further tightening has occurred over the past couple of months. Conditions in international financial markets remain difficult, with heightened concerns over credit persisting.\cb1 \
\cb2 The evidence is that the tight financial conditions, in conjunction with other factors including higher fuel costs and lower asset values, have exerted the needed restraint on demand. Indicators of household spending have recorded subdued outcomes over recent months, and credit expansion to both households and businesses has slowed. Surveys suggest a softening in business activity and growth in production has slowed.\'a0 Indicators of capacity utilisation, while still high, are declining and there have also been some signs of an easing in labour market conditions.\cb1 \
\cb2 The rise in Australia's terms of trade that has occurred is working in the opposite direction, adding substantially to national income and ability to spend. Fixed investment spending by businesses continues to be very strong. At the same time, high prices of oil and a range of other commodities have added to global inflationary risks. They are also dampening growth in a number of countries.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given the opposing forces at work, considerable uncertainty has surrounded the outlook for demand and inflation. On balance, however, it is looking more likely that household demand will remain subdued and overall economic growth slow over the period ahead. Inflation is likely to remain relatively high in the short term, with the CPI affected by the high global oil prices in mid year and other increases in raw materials prices. But looking further ahead, the outlook for demand suggests that inflation in both CPI and underlying terms is likely to decline over time, provided wages growth remains contained. The Bank's forecast remains that inflation will fall below 3\'a0per\'a0cent during 2010.\cb1 \
\cb2 Weighing up the available domestic and international information, the Board judged that there was now scope for monetary policy to become less restrictive. The Board will continue to assess prospects for demand and inflation over the period ahead, and set monetary policy as needed to bring inflation back to the 2\'963 per cent target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 7.25\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has been high over the past year in an environment of limited spare capacity and earlier strong growth in demand. This was evident again in the most recent CPI data. In these circumstances, the Board has been seeking to restrain demand in order to reduce inflation over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 As a result of increases in the cash rate last year and early this year, additional rises in market interest rates and tougher credit standards, there has been a substantial tightening in financial conditions since the middle of 2007. Some further tightening has occurred over the past couple of months. Conditions in international financial markets remain difficult, with heightened concerns over credit persisting.\cb1 \
\cb2 The evidence is that the tightening in financial conditions, in conjunction with other factors including rising fuel costs, and lower asset values, has restrained demand. Indicators of household spending have continued to record subdued outcomes over recent months, and credit expansion to both households and businesses has slowed significantly. Surveys suggest a softening in business activity, and there have also been some early signs of an easing in labour market conditions.\cb1 \
\cb2 The rise in Australia's terms of trade that is currently occurring is working in the opposite direction, adding substantially to national income and ability to spend. At the same time, high prices of oil and a range of other commodities have added to global inflationary risks. They are also dampening growth in a number of countries.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given the opposing forces at work, considerable uncertainty has surrounded the outlook for demand and inflation. On balance, however, it is looking more likely that demand will remain subdued, and economic growth will be fairly slow, over the period ahead. Inflation is likely to remain relatively high in the short term, with the CPI affected by high global oil prices. Looking further ahead, inflation in both CPI and underlying terms is likely to decline over time, given the outlook for demand, provided wages growth remains moderate. The Bank's forecast remains that inflation will fall below 3 per cent during 2010.\cb1 \
\cb2 Weighing up the available domestic and international information, the Board judged that the cash rate should remain unchanged this month. Nonetheless, with demand slowing, the Board's view is that scope to move towards a less restrictive stance of monetary policy in the period ahead is increasing.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 7.25\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has been high over the past year in an environment of limited spare capacity and earlier strong growth in demand. In these circumstances, the Board has been seeking to restrain demand in order to reduce inflation over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 As a result of earlier decisions by the Board, additional rises in market interest rates and tougher credit standards for some borrowers, there has been a substantial tightening in financial conditions since the middle of last year. Conditions in international financial markets remain difficult, with credit concerns resurfacing in the past month.\cb1 \
\cb2 The evidence is that the tightening in financial conditions, in conjunction with other factors including rising fuel costs, is working to restrain demand. Indicators of household spending have recorded subdued outcomes over recent months, and credit expansion to both households and businesses has weakened significantly. There have also been some tentative signs of an easing in labour market conditions.\cb1 \
\cb2 The rise in Australia's terms of trade that is currently occurring will work in the opposite direction. It will add substantially to national income and ability to spend, even with the slowing in global growth to below-trend pace that the Bank is assuming. At the same time, rising prices of oil and a range of other commodities are adding to global inflationary risks.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given the opposing forces at work, considerable uncertainty remains about the outlook for demand and inflation. On balance, while the inflation outlook remains concerning, the Board's assessment continues to be that demand growth will be moderate this year. The most recent flow of information has given additional support to that assessment. Inflation is likely to remain relatively high in the short term, and the CPI will be further boosted in coming quarters by the recent rises in global oil prices. Looking further ahead, inflation in both CPI and underlying terms should decline over time, provided demand continues to evolve as expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 Weighing up the available domestic and international information, the Board's judgement is that the current stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. The Board will continue to evaluate prospects for economic activity and inflation in the light of new information.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 7.25\'a0per cent.\'a0\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has been high over the past year in an environment of limited spare capacity and earlier strong growth in demand. In these circumstances, the Board has been seeking to restrain demand in order to reduce inflation over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 As a result of earlier decisions by the Board, additional rises in market interest rates and tougher credit standards for some borrowers, there has been a substantial tightening in financial conditions since the middle of last year. Conditions in international financial markets, though gradually improving, also remain difficult.\cb1 \
\cb2 The evidence is that this is helping to produce a moderation in demand. While labour market conditions to date have remained strong, indicators of household spending have recorded subdued outcomes over recent months, and credit expansion to both households and businesses has weakened significantly.\cb1 \
\cb2 The rise in Australia's terms of trade that is currently occurring will work in the opposite direction. It will add substantially to national income and ability to spend, even with the slowing in global growth to below-trend pace that the Bank is assuming.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given the opposing forces at work, considerable uncertainty remains about the outlook for demand and inflation. On balance, the Board's current assessment is that demand growth will be moderate this year. In the short term, inflation is likely to remain relatively high, but it should decline over time provided demand evolves as expected. Should demand not slow as expected, or should expectations of high ongoing inflation begin to affect wage and price setting, that outlook would need to be reviewed.\cb1 \
\cb2 Weighing up the available domestic and international information, the Board's judgement is that the current stance of monetary policy remains appropriate for the time being. The Board will continue to evaluate prospects for economic activity and inflation in the light of new information.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 7.25\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has been high over the past year, with the CPI rising by a little over 4\'a0per cent and underlying measures at a similar pace. Price rises were widespread, in an environment of limited capacity and earlier strong growth in demand.\cb1 \
\cb2 In order to reduce inflation over time, growth in aggregate demand needs to be significantly slower than it was in 2007. Evidence is accumulating that this is occurring. Indicators of household spending have recorded subdued outcomes over recent months, and demand for credit by both households and businesses has weakened.\cb1 \
\cb2 As a result of the Board's earlier decisions, additional rises in market interest rates and tougher credit standards for some borrowers, there has been a substantial tightening in financial conditions since the middle of last year. Conditions in international financial markets, though improved in recent weeks, also remain difficult. These factors are acting to restrain demand.\cb1 \
\cb2 The rise in Australia's terms of trade currently occurring, which is larger than had been expected a couple of months ago, will work in the opposite direction. It will add substantially to national income and ability to spend, even with the slowing in global growth to below trend pace that the Bank has been assuming for some months now.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given the opposing forces at work, considerable uncertainty remains about the outlook for demand and inflation. On balance, the Board's current assessment is that demand growth will remain moderate this year. In the short term, inflation is likely to remain relatively high, but it should decline over time provided demand evolves as expected. Should demand not slow as expected or should expectations of high ongoing inflation begin to affect wage and price setting, that outlook would need to be reviewed.\cb1 \
\cb2 Weighing up the available domestic and international information, the Board's judgement is that the current stance of monetary policy remains appropriate for the time being. The Board will continue to evaluate prospects for economic activity and inflation in the light of new information.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 7.25 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 For some time now, the Board has been seeking to slow the growth of aggregate demand, in order to reduce inflation. To that end, the Board had increased the cash rate at each of its two previous meetings, as well as on two occasions last year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Information becoming available from the national accounts over the past month confirmed that the Australian economy grew strongly through 2007, driven by rapid growth in domestic spending. Employment has also continued to grow strongly. However, other recent information provides tentative evidence that growth in domestic demand is moderating. Business and consumer sentiment have softened in the early part of 2008, and credit demand has slowed somewhat.\cb1 \
\cb2 Developments abroad continue to suggest that the world economy is slowing and, in line with the Bank's previous forecasts, it appears likely that global growth will be below trend in 2008. Notwithstanding some recent declines in world commodity prices, however, a further large rise in Australia's terms of trade is in prospect this year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sentiment in global financial markets remains quite fragile and Australian financial intermediaries are experiencing increases in funding costs, which are being passed on to borrowers. Some tightening in credit standards for more risky borrowers is occurring.\cb1 \
\cb2 As a result of the recent monetary policy decisions and rises in borrowing costs that are occurring independently of changes in the cash rate, the overall tightening in financial conditions since the middle of 2007 has been substantial. That is working to foster the moderation in demand growth that will take pressure off inflation. In the short term, inflation is likely to remain relatively high, and both the CPI and underlying measures will probably rise further in year-ended terms in the March quarter. However, inflation should decline over time, provided demand slows as expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 Weighing up the available domestic and international information, the Board's judgment is that the current monetary policy setting is appropriate for the time being. The Board will continue to evaluate prospects for economic activity and inflation in the light of new information.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate by 25 basis points to 7.25\'a0per cent, effective 5\'a0March\'a02008.\cb1 \
\cb2 This adjustment was made in order to contain and reduce inflation over the medium term. Inflation was high in 2007, with an annual CPI increase of 3\'a0per cent in the December quarter and underlying measures around 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent. Domestic demand grew at rates appreciably higher than the growth of the economy's productive capacity over the year. Labour market conditions remained strong into early 2008 and reports of high capacity usage and shortages of suitable labour persist. Inflation is likely to remain relatively high in the short term, and will probably rise further in year\uc0\u8209 ended terms, before moderating next year in response to slower growth in demand.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board took account of events abroad and developments in financial markets. The world economy is slowing and it appears likely that global growth will be below trend in 2008. Recent trends in world commodity markets, however, have further strengthened prospects for Australia's terms of trade.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sentiment in global financial markets remains fragile. Australian financial intermediaries are experiencing increases in funding costs, which are being passed on to customers. Some tightening in credit standards for more risky borrowers is occurring.\cb1 \
\cb2 There is tentative evidence that some moderation in household demand is beginning to occur, with business and consumer sentiment softer recently, and household credit demand slowing somewhat. The extent of that moderation is uncertain, however. As the Board noted last month, a significant slowing in demand from its pace of last year is likely to be necessary to reduce inflation over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Having weighed both the international and domestic information available, the Board concluded that a further tightening in monetary policy was needed to secure an inflation rate of 2\uc0\u8209 3\'a0per cent over time. As a result of this and earlier actions, and rises in borrowing costs which are occurring independently of changes in the cash rate, the overall tightening in financial conditions since the middle of 2007 is substantial. The Board will continue to evaluate prospects for economic activity and inflation in the light of new information.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate by 25 basis points to 7.0\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information points to significant inflation pressures. CPI inflation on a year-ended basis picked up to 3\'a0per\'a0cent in the December quarter, with underlying measures around 3\'bd\'a0per cent. This was a little higher than was expected a few months ago. Indicators of demand remained strong through the second half of 2007, and reports of high capacity usage and shortages of suitable labour persist. In the short term, inflation is likely to remain relatively high and will probably rise further in year-ended terms, though the Bank expects it to moderate somewhat next year.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board took careful note of recent events abroad and developments in financial markets. The world economy is slowing and it now appears likely that global growth will be below trend in 2008. Recent trends in world commodity markets suggest, however, that Australia's terms of trade are likely to rise further.\cb1 \
\cb2 The pressures in short-term money markets seen late last year have eased in recent weeks, but sentiment in international capital and equity markets remains fragile. In Australia, financial intermediaries have passed on higher costs to their customers over the past couple of months. There has also been some tightening of lending standards to risky borrowers, a process which may yet have further to go.\cb1 \
\cb2 These developments, together with the effects of earlier changes to monetary policy, can be expected to exert a moderating influence on private demand in Australia over the period ahead. But given the extent of pressure on capacity and the build up in inflation, a significant slowing in demand from its recent pace is likely to be necessary to reduce inflation over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Having weighed both the international and domestic information available, the Board concluded that a tighter monetary policy setting was needed now. In future meetings, the Board will continue to evaluate whether the stance of policy will be sufficiently restrictive to return inflation to the 2\'963\'a0per cent target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to raise the cash rate by 25 basis points to 3.75\'a0per cent, effective 2\'a0December 2009.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy has resumed growth. With economic policies remaining expansionary, growth is likely to continue next year, though it will probably be modest in the major countries, due to the continuing legacy of the financial crisis. In China and Asia generally, where financial sectors are not impaired, recovery has been much quicker to date and prospects appear to be for good growth in 2010. Financial markets have improved considerably during 2009, notwithstanding periodic setbacks, and capital flows into Asia and other emerging market regions have been picking up.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the downturn was relatively mild, and measures of confidence and business conditions suggest that the economy is in a gradual recovery. The effects of the early stages of the fiscal stimulus on consumer demand are fading, but public infrastructure spending is starting to provide more impetus to demand. Prospects for ongoing expansion of private demand, including business investment, have been strengthening. There have been some early signs of an improvement in labour market conditions. The rate of unemployment is now likely to peak at a considerably lower level than earlier expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has declined from its peak last year, helped by the fall in commodity prices at the end of 2008 and a noticeable slowing in private-sector labour costs during 2009. In underlying terms, inflation should continue to moderate in the near term, though it will probably not fall as far as thought likely six months ago. Headline CPI\'a0inflation on a year-ended basis has been unusually low because of temporary factors, and will probably rise somewhat over the coming year. Both CPI and underlying inflation are expected to be consistent with the target in 2010. The rise in the exchange rate during this year will have some impact in containing prices for traded goods and services in the period ahead, and will dampen growth in the trade-exposed sector of the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Credit for housing is expanding at a solid pace, and dwelling prices have risen significantly this year. Business credit has fallen, as companies have reduced leverage in an environment of tighter lending standards, and as some lenders have scaled back their balance sheets. The decline in credit has been concentrated among large firms, which generally have had good access to equity capital and, more recently, to debt markets. Share markets have recovered significant ground, which, together with higher dwelling prices, has meant a noticeable recovery in household wealth.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board's assessment of the outlook remains much as in the November Statement on Monetary Policy. Growth in 2010 is likely to be close to trend and inflation close to target.\cb1 \
\cb2 With the risk of serious economic contraction in Australia having passed, the Board has moved at recent meetings to lessen gradually the degree of monetary stimulus that was put in place when the outlook appeared to be much weaker. These material adjustments to the stance of monetary policy will, in the Board's view, work to increase the sustainability of growth in economic activity and keep inflation consistent with the target over the years ahead.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to raise the cash rate by 25 basis points to 3.25\'a0per cent, effective 7\'a0October\'a02009.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is resuming growth. With economic policy settings likely to remain expansionary for some time, the recovery will likely continue during 2010 and forecasts are being revised higher. The expansion is generally expected to be modest in the major countries, due to the continuing legacy of the financial crisis. Prospects for Australia's Asian trading partners appear to be noticeably better. Growth in China has been very strong, which is having a significant impact on other economies in the region and on commodity markets. For Australia's trading partner group, growth in 2010 is likely to be close to trend.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sentiment in global financial markets has continued to improve. Nonetheless, the state of balance sheets in some major countries remains a potential constraint on their expansion.\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic conditions in Australia have been stronger than expected and measures of confidence have recovered. \'a0Some spending has probably been brought forward by the various policy initiatives. As those effects diminish, these areas of demand may soften somewhat. Some types of capital spending are likely to be held back for a while by financing constraints, but it now appears that private investment will not be as weak as earlier expected. Medium-term prospects for investment appear, moreover, to be strengthening. Higher dwelling activity and public infrastructure spending is also starting to provide more support to spending. Overall, growth through 2010 looks likely to be close to trend.\cb1 \
\cb2 Unemployment has not risen as far as had been expected. The weaker demand for labour over the past year or so nonetheless has seen a moderation in labour costs. Helped by this and the earlier fall in energy and commodity prices, inflation has been declining, though measures of underlying inflation remained higher than the target on the latest reading. Underlying inflation should continue to moderate in the near term, but now will probably not fall as far as earlier thought.\cb1 \
\cb2 Housing credit growth has been solid and dwelling prices have risen appreciably over the past six months. Business borrowing has been declining, as companies have sought to reduce leverage in an environment of tighter lending standards. But large firms have had good access to equity capital and access to debt markets appears to be improving, helped by the better-than-expected economic conditions and increased willingness on the part of investors to accept risk. Share markets have recovered significant ground.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates facing prospective borrowers on fixed-rate loans have already risen to some extent, as markets have anticipated a higher level of the cash rate. For many business borrowers, increases in risk margins will still be occurring for some time yet. In addition, the exchange rate has appreciated considerably over the past year, which will dampen pressure on prices and constrain growth in the tradeables sector. These factors have been carefully considered by the Board.\cb1 \
\cb2 In late 2008 and early 2009, the cash rate was lowered quickly, to a very low level, in expectation of very weak economic conditions and a recognition that considerable downside risks existed. That basis for such a low interest rate setting has now passed, however. With growth likely to be close to trend over the year ahead, inflation close to target and the risk of serious economic contraction in Australia now having passed, the Board's view is that it is now prudent to begin gradually lessening the stimulus provided by monetary policy. This will work to increase the sustainability of growth in economic activity and keep inflation consistent with the target over the years ahead.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to raise the cash rate by 25 basis points to 3.5\'a0per cent, effective 4\'a0November\'a02009.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy has resumed growth. With economic policy settings likely to remain expansionary for some time, the recovery is likely to continue during 2010 and forecasts have been revised higher. The expansion is generally expected to be modest in the major countries, due to the continuing legacy of the financial crisis. Prospects for Australia's Asian trading partners appear to be noticeably better. Growth in China has been very strong, which is having a significant impact on other economies in the region and on commodity markets. For Australia's trading partner group, growth in 2010 is likely to be close to trend.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sentiment in global financial markets is much better than earlier in the year. Nonetheless, the state of balance sheets in some major countries remains a potential constraint on their expansion.\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic conditions in Australia have been stronger than expected and measures of confidence have recovered. Some spending has probably been brought forward by the various policy initiatives. With those effects now diminishing, these areas of demand may soften somewhat. Some types of capital spending are likely to be held back for a while by financing constraints, but it now appears that private investment will not be as weak as earlier expected. Medium-term prospects for investment appear, moreover, to be strengthening. Higher dwelling activity and public infrastructure spending are also starting to provide more support to spending. There have been some early signs of an improvement in labour market conditions. The rate of unemployment is now likely to peak at a considerably lower level than earlier expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has been declining for the past year. In underlying terms, inflation should continue to moderate in the near term, but now will probably not fall as far as earlier thought. Headline CPI inflation on a year-ended basis has been unusually low because of temporary factors, and will probably rise somewhat over the coming year. Both CPI and underlying inflation are expected to be consistent with the target in 2010.\cb1 \
\cb2 Housing credit growth has been solid and dwelling prices have risen appreciably this year. Business borrowing has been declining as companies have sought to reduce leverage in an environment of tighter lending standards. For many business borrowers, increases in risk margins are still coming through. The decline in credit has been concentrated among large firms, which have had good access to equity capital and, more recently, to debt markets. Share markets have recovered significant ground.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board noted that the rise in the exchange rate is likely to constrain output in the tradeables sector and dampen price pressures. Nonetheless, growth is likely to be close to trend over the year ahead and inflation close to target. With the risk of serious economic contraction in Australia now having passed, the Board's view is that it is prudent to lessen gradually the degree of monetary stimulus that was put in place when the outlook appeared to be much weaker. The adjustments at the October and November meetings will work to increase the sustainability of growth in economic activity and keep inflation consistent with the target over the years ahead.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 With considerable economic policy stimulus in train around the world, the global economy is resuming growth. Growth in China has been very strong, which is having a significant impact on other economies in the region and on commodity markets. The major economies appear to be approaching a turning point. Most observers still expect only modest growth in the world economy in 2010, due to the continuing legacy of the financial crisis, though forecasts have been revised up recently.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sentiment in global financial markets has continued to improve. But the effects of economic weakness on the balance sheets of financial institutions will still be coming through for a while. This constitutes one of the main remaining risks to the global expansion. For the recovery to be durable, continued progress in restoring balance sheets is essential.\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic conditions in Australia have been stronger than expected, with consumer spending, exports and business investment notable for their resilience. Measures of confidence have recovered. Some spending has probably been brought forward by the various policy initiatives; in those areas demand may soften in the near term. Some types of capital spending are also likely to be held back for a while by financing constraints. But overall, it now appears that investment may not be as weak over the year ahead as earlier expected. Higher dwelling activity and public demand will also start to provide more support to spending soon and, hence, growth is likely to firm going into 2010.\cb1 \
\cb2 Unemployment has not, to this point, risen as far as had been expected. Weaker demand for labour, evident in a decline in hours worked, nonetheless has seen a moderation in labour costs. Helped by this and the earlier fall in energy and commodity prices, inflation has been declining, though measures of underlying inflation remained higher than the target on the latest reading. Underlying inflation should continue to moderate in the near term, but the likelihood of inflation being persistently below the target now looks low.\cb1 \
\cb2 Credit growth overall remains quite modest. Housing credit has been solid and dwelling prices have risen over recent months. Business borrowing, on the other hand, has been declining, as companies have sought to reduce leverage in an environment of tighter lending standards. Large firms have had good access to equity capital and access to debt markets appears to be improving, helped by the better-than-expected economic conditions and increased willingness on the part of investors to accept risk.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board's judgement is that the present accommodative setting of monetary policy remains appropriate for the time being. The Board will continue to adjust monetary policy so as to foster sustainable growth in economic activity and inflation consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.0\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 With considerable economic stimulus in train around the world, the global economy is stabilising after an earlier sharp contraction in demand. Downside risks to the global outlook have diminished, though they have not disappeared and most observers expect only modest growth overall. There is tentative evidence that the US economy is approaching a turning point, but conditions in Europe are still weakening. Growth in China, in contrast, has been very strong in recent months, which is having an impact on other economies in the region and on commodity markets.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sentiment in global financial markets has continued to improve. Nonetheless, credit conditions remain difficult, and the effects of economic weakness on asset quality present a challenge. For the global economic recovery to be durable, continued progress in restoring balance sheets is essential.\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic conditions in Australia have been stronger than expected a few months ago, with both consumer spending and exports notable for their resilience. Measures of confidence have recovered a good deal of ground. This suggests that the risk of a severe contraction in the Australian economy has abated. The most likely outcome in the near term is a period of sluggish output, with consumer spending likely to slow somewhat and investment remaining weak. Stronger dwelling activity and public spending will start to provide more support to overall demand soon, and growth is likely to firm into 2010.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is gradually moderating, given the earlier decline in energy and commodity prices, and the effects of weaker demand on prices and labour costs. Given the current prospects for demand and output, this moderation should continue over the year ahead. The higher exchange rate over recent months will assist this moderation, at the margin.\cb1 \
\cb2 Housing credit has been solid, and dwelling prices have risen over recent months. Business borrowing, on the other hand, has been declining, as companies have postponed investment plans and sought to reduce leverage in an environment of tighter lending standards. Large firms have had good access to equity capital, and access to debt markets appears to be improving.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board's judgment is that the present accommodative setting of monetary policy is appropriate given the economy's circumstances. The Board will continue to monitor how economic and financial conditions unfold and how they impinge on prospects for sustainable growth in economic activity and achieving the inflation target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.0\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is stabilising, after a sharp contraction in demand during the December and March quarters.\'a0 Downside risks to the outlook have diminished, with conditions in global financial markets improving this year and action to strengthen balance sheets of key financial institutions under way. Growth in China has strengthened considerably, which is having an impact on other economies in the region, including Australia.\'a0\cb1 \
\cb2 Nonetheless, credit conditions remain tight and the effects of economic weakness on asset quality present a challenge. There is tentative evidence that the US economy is approaching a turning point, but conditions in Europe are still weakening.\'a0 While the considerable economic policy stimulus in train around the world should support recovery, it is likely to be slow at first.\'a0 For it to be durable, continued progress in restoring balance sheets is essential.\'a0\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic conditions in Australia have to date not been as weak as expected a few months ago. But output has been sluggish and capacity utilisation has fallen back to about average levels, with some further decline likely over the rest of the year.\'a0 Weaker demand for labour is leading to lower growth in labour costs. These conditions should see inflation continue to abate over the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 A pick-up in housing credit demand suggests stronger dwelling activity is likely later in the year. House prices are tending to rise. Business borrowing, on the other hand, has been declining, as companies postpone investment plans and seek to reduce leverage in an environment of tighter lending standards.\'a0 Large firms have had good access to equity capital, which is assisting in strengthening their financial structures.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy has been eased significantly.\'a0 Market and mortgage rates are at very low levels by historical standards, despite recent small increases. Business loan rates are below average.\'a0 The effects of these changes will still be coming through for some time yet. Fiscal measures are also providing considerable support for demand.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board's current view is that the outlook for inflation allows some scope for further easing of monetary policy, if needed.\'a0 In assessing how it might use that scope, the Board will continue to monitor how economic and financial conditions unfold and how they impinge on prospects for a sustainable recovery in economic activity.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.0\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Evidence has continued to emerge that the global economy is stabilising, after a sharp contraction during the December and March quarters. The considerable economic policy stimulus in train in most countries is helping to contain the downturn, and should support an eventual recovery. The turnaround is clearest in China and some other emerging countries. Recovery in the major countries is likely to take longer to begin and be slower when it does occur.\cb1 \
\cb2 Prospects are being helped by better conditions in global financial markets. Confidence, while improving, nonetheless remains fragile and balance sheets are under pressure from the effects of economic weakness on asset quality. Credit remains tight. Continued progress in restoring balance sheets is essential for a durable recovery.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy has been contracting. Capacity utilisation has fallen back to about average levels, and will decline further over the rest of the year. With demand for labour weakening, growth in labour costs is beginning to fall. These conditions are likely to see inflation continue to abate over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 A pick-up in housing credit demand suggests stronger dwelling activity is likely later in the year. Business borrowing, on the other hand, is declining, as companies postpone investment plans and seek to reduce leverage, in an environment of tighter lending standards.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy has been eased significantly. Market and mortgage rates are at very low levels by historical standards. Business loan rates are below average. Much of the effect of this is yet to be observed. Fiscal measures are also providing considerable support for demand.\cb1 \
\cb2 Nonetheless, the prospect of inflation declining over the medium term suggests that scope remains for some further easing of monetary policy, if needed. In assessing how it might use that scope, the Board will continue to monitor how economic and financial conditions unfold, and how they impinge on prospects for a sustainable recovery in economic activity.\
\
At its meeting today the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy contracted further during the first few months of this year. While the near-term outlook remains weak, there are further signs of stabilisation in several countries. The Chinese economy in particular has picked up speed in recent months and many commodity prices have firmed a little. The considerable economic policy stimulus in train in most countries should help contain the downturn and support an eventual recovery.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in global financial markets remain generally on a path of gradual improvement, with equity prices off their lows, term spreads declining and capital markets re\uc0\u8209 opening. Nonetheless, confidence remains fragile and balance sheets are under pressure from the effects of economic weakness on asset quality. Credit remains tight. Continued progress in restoring balance sheets remains essential to durable recovery.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy contracted in the latter part of 2008, and this has continued in 2009 to date, with both domestic and international demand weaker. Capacity utilisation has fallen back to about average levels, and will decline further over the rest of the year. With demand for labour weakening, growth in labour costs will probably also fall. These conditions are likely to see inflation continue to abate, though this is occurring only gradually so far, as the effects of the decline in the exchange rate are pushing up some prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australian markets have seen a decline in term spreads and firmer equity prices over recent months. Borrowing for housing is picking up, particularly among first-home buyers. Business borrowing, on the other hand, is declining, as companies curtail investment plans and seek to reduce leverage, in an environment of tighter lending standards.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy has been eased significantly. Market and mortgage rates are at very low levels by historical standards and business loan rates are below average, reducing debt\uc0\u8209 servicing burdens considerably. Much of the effect of these changes is yet to be observed. The stance of monetary policy, together with the substantial fiscal initiatives, will provide significant support to domestic demand over the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 In assessing whether further reductions in the cash rate are required over the period ahead, the Board will monitor how economic and financial conditions unfold, and how they impinge on prospects for a sustainable recovery in economic activity.\cb1 \
\
\cb2 At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25\'a0basis points to 3.0\'a0per cent, effective 8\'a0April\'a02009.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information from abroad indicates that the contraction in the global economy continued during the first few months of this year, and most assessments of the near-term outlook have been further marked down. Considerable economic policy stimulus is in train in most countries, the full effects of which are not yet discernible, but which should help contain the downturn over the rest of the year. There are tentative signs of stabilisation in several countries, including China, though it is too early yet to judge how durable these will prove to be.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in global financial markets have continued to improve gradually, helped by progress towards a resolution of banking system difficulties in the United States and other major countries. Sentiment remains fragile, however, and the contraction in economic activity is affecting asset quality of financial institutions.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is contracting, though by less than those of its trading partners. Capacity utilisation has fallen from its peak, and will decline further over the rest of the year. With demand for labour weakening, growth in labour costs will probably also fall. Hence inflation over the medium term is likely to be lower than it has been over the past two years. Demand for credit is weak overall, though credit for owner-occupied housing is picking up.\cb1 \
\cb2 There has already been a major change in both monetary and fiscal policy in Australia. Market and mortgage rates are at very low levels by historical standards and business loan rates are below recent averages, reducing debt-servicing burdens considerably. Nonetheless, the Board judged that there was scope for a further modest adjustment to the cash rate. The stance of monetary policy, together with the substantial fiscal initiatives, will provide significant support to domestic demand over the period ahead.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.25 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent data confirm that the world economy has remained very weak following the sharp decline in demand that occurred late last year. The major industrial economies reported large contractions in output in the December quarter, as did a number of emerging market economies across Asia and eastern Europe. Many countries are likely to be experiencing further falls in output in the current quarter.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in global credit markets have improved since November, but sentiment remains fragile. Share prices have weakened and banking systems in several major countries are still under pressure, as authorities work towards a resolution of the balance-sheet problems. Significant macroeconomic policy stimulus is being put in place around the world, but it is too soon to see the effects of those measures.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, demand has not weakened as much as in other countries and, on the basis of currently available information, the Australian economy has not experienced the sort of large contraction seen elsewhere. The Australian financial system remains strong and the monetary policy transmission process is working to deliver large reductions in interest rates to end borrowers. Nonetheless, economic conditions are clearly weak, and given the speed and scale of the global economic deterioration and its effect on confidence, weak conditions are likely to continue in the near term. Inflation is likely to decline over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 In response to that outlook, there has already been a major change in both monetary and fiscal policy. Market and mortgage rates are at very low levels by historical standards and business loan rates are below recent averages, reducing debt-servicing burdens considerably. Together with the substantial fiscal initiatives, the cumulative decline in interest rates will provide significant support to domestic demand over the period ahead. On this basis, notwithstanding evident economic weakness at present, the Board judged that the stance of monetary policy was appropriate for the moment. The Board will consider the position again at its next meeting.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to reduce the cash rate by a further 100 basis points, to 3.25 per cent, effective 4 February 2009.\cb1 \
\cb2 There was a significant deterioration in world economic conditions late in 2008. The effects on household and business confidence of the financial turmoil following Lehman's collapse, and continuing strains on major financial institutions, saw a significant downturn in demand around the world. As a result, the major advanced economies contracted sharply in the December quarter, as did a number of emerging market economies. The Chinese economy, though still growing, has slowed markedly. Global inflation, having reached high rates during the middle of 2008, is now declining.\cb1 \
\cb2 Measures to stabilise financial systems have contributed to an improvement in the functioning of credit markets over the past couple of months. This, in conjunction with expansionary macroeconomic policy measures being taken around the world, should assist in promoting global recovery over time. But the near-term outlook for the global economy is the weakest for many years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic conditions in Australia have also been affected, though less than in other advanced economies. Australia's financial system remains in a strong condition and large interest rate reductions over recent months have been passed through in substantial measure to end borrowers. Nonetheless, the combination of last year's financial turmoil, a severe global downturn and substantial falls in commodity prices has had a significant dampening effect on confidence, and therefore on prospects for growth in demand. Inflation has begun to moderate and, given recent developments, it is likely to continue to decline.\cb1 \
\cb2 In these circumstances, the Board judged that a further sizable reduction in the cash rate was appropriate, to give further support to demand. In making its decision, the Board took into account the package of measures announced by the Government earlier today. The combination of expansionary monetary and fiscal policies now in place will help to cushion the Australian economy from the contractionary forces coming from abroad.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.75\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Since the previous Board meeting, concerns about the creditworthiness of a number of European governments have again become the main focus of financial markets, with a marked rise in sovereign bond spreads for some euro-area countries and an increase in volatility. At the same time, recent data suggest that the Chinese and Indian economies have continued to grow strongly and price pressures, particularly for food, have picked up in China as well as a number of other economies in Asia. Modest growth is continuing in the United States.\cb1 \
\cb2 For Australia, the terms of trade are at their highest level since the early 1950s, and national income is growing strongly as a result. Recent information indicates that, as had been expected, private investment is beginning to pick up in response to high levels of commodity prices. In the household sector thus far, there continues to be a degree of caution in spending and borrowing, which has led to a noticeable increase in the saving rate. Asset values have generally been little changed over recent months and overall credit growth remains quite subdued, notwithstanding evidence of some greater willingness to lend.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment growth has been very strong over the past year, though some leading indicators suggest a more moderate pace of expansion in the period ahead. After the significant decline last year, growth in wages has picked up somewhat, as had been expected. Some further increase is likely over the coming year.\cb1 \
\cb2 The exchange rate has risen significantly this year, reflecting the high level of commodity prices and the respective outlooks for monetary policy in Australia and the major countries. This will assist, at the margin, in containing pressure on inflation over the period ahead. Over the next few quarters, inflation is expected to be little changed, though it is likely to increase somewhat over the medium term if the economy grows as expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 Following the Board's decision last month to lift the cash rate, and the subsequent increases by financial institutions, lending rates in the economy are now a little above average. The Board views this setting of monetary policy as appropriate for the economic outlook.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to raise the cash rate by 25 basis points to 4.75\'a0per cent, effective 3\'a0November\'a02010.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy grew faster than trend over the year to mid 2010. Global growth will probably ease back to about trend pace over the coming year as strong recoveries in the emerging world give way to a more sustainable pace of expansion and growth remains subdued in the United States and Europe. At the same time, concerns about the possibility of a larger than expected slowing in Chinese growth have lessened recently and most commodity prices have firmed, after a fall earlier in the year. The prices most important to Australia remain at very high levels, with the result that the terms of trade are at their highest since the early 1950s. The turmoil in financial markets earlier in the year has abated, though sentiment remains fragile.\cb1 \
\cb2 Information on the Australian economy indicates growth around trend over the past year. Public spending was prominent in driving aggregate demand for several quarters but this impact is now lessening. While there has been a degree of caution in private spending behaviour thus far, the rise in the terms of trade, which is now boosting national income very substantially, is likely to lead to stronger private spending over the next couple of years, especially in business investment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Asset values are not moving notably in either direction, and overall credit growth remains quite subdued at this stage notwithstanding evidence of some greater willingness to lend. The exchange rate has risen significantly this year, reflecting the high level of commodity prices and the respective outlooks for monetary policy in Australia and the major countries. This will assist, at the margin, in containing pressure on inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 The demand for labour has continued to firm. While the labour market is not as tight as in 2007 and 2008, some further strengthening would appear to be in prospect, judging by the trends in job vacancies. After the significant decline last year, growth in wages has picked up somewhat, as had been expected. Some further increase is likely over the coming year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given these conditions, the moderation in inflation that has been under way for the past two years is probably now close to ending. Recent information suggests underlying inflation running at about 2\'bd\'a0per cent, with the CPI inflation rate a little higher due mainly to increases in tobacco taxes. Both results were helped somewhat in the latest quarter by unusual softness in food prices. Inflation is likely to rise over the next few years. This outlook, which is largely unchanged from the Bank's earlier forecasts, assumes some tightening in monetary policy.\cb1 \
\cb2 For some time, the Board has held the stance of monetary policy steady, which has resulted in interest rates to borrowers being close to their average of the past decade. This allowed some time to observe the early effects of previous policy changes and to monitor the uncertain global outlook. The Board is also cognisant of differences in the degree of economic strength by industry and by region.\cb1 \
\cb2 However, the economy is now subject to a large expansionary shock from the high terms of trade and has relatively modest amounts of spare capacity. Looking ahead, notwithstanding recent good results on inflation, the risk of inflation rising again over the medium term remains. At today's meeting, the Board concluded that the balance of risks had shifted to the point where an early, modest tightening of monetary policy was prudent.\cb1 \
\
\cb2 At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.5\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy grew faster than trend over the year to mid 2010, but will probably ease back to about trend pace over the coming year. Recent information is consistent with a more sustainable, but still strong, pace of growth in China and most of the Asian region. In Europe and the United States, growth prospects appear to be modest in the near term, a legacy of the financial crisis and its impact on private and public finances. Financial markets are still characterised by a degree of uncertainty, and are responding both to differences in growth outlooks between regions and evident strains on public finances and banking systems in several smaller countries in Europe. Most commodity prices have changed little over recent months, and those most important to Australia remain very high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Information on the Australian economy shows growth around trend over the past year. Public spending was prominent in driving aggregate demand for several quarters but this impact is now lessening, while the prospects for private demand, and in particular business investment, have been improving. This is to be expected given the large rise in Australia's terms of trade, which is now boosting national income very substantially.\cb1 \
\cb2 Asset values are not moving notably in either direction, and overall credit growth is quite subdued at this stage, notwithstanding evidence of some greater willingness to lend. Inflation has moderated from the excessive pace of 2008. The effects of the rise in tobacco taxes aside, CPI inflation has been running at around 2\'be\'a0per cent over the past year. That looks likely to continue in the near term.\cb1 \
\cb2 The current stance of monetary policy is delivering interest rates to borrowers close to their average of the past decade. The Board regards this as appropriate for the time being. If economic conditions evolve as the Board currently expects, it is likely that higher interest rates will be required, at some point, to ensure that inflation remains consistent with the medium-term target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.5\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy grew faster than trend over the year to mid 2010, but will probably ease back to about trend pace over the coming year. Growth in China is moderating to a more sustainable rate as policies are now less accommodating. Similar adjustments to policies and growth rates are occurring in other countries in the Asian region. In Europe, output has improved significantly so far this year, but prospects for next year are probably for slower growth given planned fiscal contraction. US growth was solid in the first half of 2010 but the pace of expansion in the second half of the year is looking weaker.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets are functioning more smoothly than they were a few months ago, though caution persists, with equity prices soft and yields on sovereign bonds issued by major countries reaching unusually low levels. Commodity prices are also off their peaks, though those most important for Australia remain at very high levels, and the terms of trade have regained their peak of two years ago.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information suggests that the Australian economy has been growing at around trend pace. This has been helped by high levels of public spending over the past year but private demand has also been firming. The high level of the terms of trade is boosting incomes, which will tend to add to demand over the year ahead, while the effects of earlier expansionary policy measures will be diminishing. Indications are that business investment in particular could increase strongly.\cb1 \
\cb2 Domestic credit and asset markets present a more balanced picture than six months ago. Business credit has stabilised and while credit conditions for some sectors remain difficult, evidence is slowly emerging of more willingness to lend. Credit outstanding for housing has slowed a little over recent months, and the upward pressure on dwelling prices appears to have abated.\cb1 \
\cb2 The demand for labour has firmed over the past year in line with improving growth. After the significant decline last year, growth in wages has picked up somewhat, as had been expected. Through to mid 2011, underlying inflation is likely to be in the top half of the target zone, while CPI inflation will probably be just above 3\'a0per cent for a few quarters due to the impact of the tobacco tax changes.\cb1 \
\cb2 The current setting of monetary policy is resulting in interest rates to borrowers around their average levels of the past decade. With growth in the near term likely to be close to trend, inflation close to target and with the global outlook remaining somewhat uncertain, the Board judged this setting of monetary policy to be appropriate for the time being.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.5\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy grew faster than trend over the year to mid 2010. The expansion has been uneven, with the major advanced countries recording only moderate growth overall but growth in Asia and Latin America very strong. There are indications that growth in China is moderating to a more sustainable rate as policies are now less accommodating. Similar adjustments to policies and growth rates are occurring in other countries in the Asian region. In Europe, while output in some key countries has been improving significantly, prospects for next year are more uncertain given planned fiscal contraction. US growth was stronger in the first half of 2010 but the pace of labour market improvement has been slow and the expansion may be somewhat lacklustre in the second half of 2010. Overall, the Bank expects global growth to be about trend over the coming year.\cb1 \
\cb2 The caution evident in financial markets in the past few months has abated of late, helped by the disclosure of information about European banks. Nonetheless, the global outlook remains somewhat more uncertain than a few months ago and this is reflected in the volatility of financial prices. Commodity prices are off their peaks but those most important for Australia remain at very high levels, and the terms of trade are around their peak of two years ago.\cb1 \
\cb2 With the high level of the terms of trade expected to add to incomes and demand, output growth in Australia over the year ahead is likely to be about trend, even though the effects of earlier expansionary policy measures will be diminishing. Consumption spending is recording a modest increase at present, with households displaying a degree of caution, but most indicators suggest business investment will increase over the coming year. Business credit has stabilised, though credit conditions for some sectors remain difficult. Credit outstanding for housing has continued to expand, but the upward pressure on dwelling prices appears to have abated.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market has continued to firm gradually, and after the significant decline last year, growth in wages has picked up a little, as had been expected. Recent data for inflation were consistent with the Bank's May forecasts, with underlying inflation declining to about 2\'be\'a0per\'a0cent, the lowest rate for about three years. The rate of CPI increase was a little above 3\'a0per cent due to the effects of increases in tobacco taxes announced earlier in the year. Through to mid 2011, underlying inflation is likely to be in the top half of the target zone, while CPI inflation will probably be just above 3\'a0per\'a0cent for a few quarters due to the impact of the tax changes and increases in utilities prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 The current setting of monetary policy is resulting in interest rates to borrowers around their average levels of the past decade. With growth likely to be close to trend, inflation close to target and the global outlook remaining somewhat uncertain, the Board judged this setting of monetary policy to be appropriate.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.5\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy has continued to expand over recent months, consistent with a trend pace of growth. The expansion remains uneven, with the major advanced countries recording only modest growth overall, but growth in Asia and Latin America, to date, very strong. There are indications that growth in China is now starting to moderate to a more sustainable rate. In Europe, while output in some key countries has been improving recently, prospects for next year are more uncertain given the budgetary constraints governments face and the pressure on euro area banks. US growth has looked stronger in the first half of 2010 but the pace of labour market improvement is slow.\cb1 \
\cb2 Caution in financial markets has been evident in the past couple of months, driven principally by concerns about European sovereigns and banks but also by some uncertainty about the pace of future global growth. Financial prices have been more volatile and equity prices and government bond yields in major countries have declined. Some tightness in funding markets is evident, though not on the scale seen in late 2008. Commodity prices are off their peaks but those most important for Australia remain at very high levels, and the terms of trade are approaching their peak of two years ago.\cb1 \
\cb2 With the high level of the terms of trade expected to add to incomes and demand, output growth in Australia over the year ahead is likely to be about trend, even though the effects of earlier expansionary policy measures will be diminishing. Consumption spending is recording a modest increase at present, with households displaying a degree of caution, but most indicators suggest business investment will increase over the coming year. Business credit appears to have stabilised, though credit conditions for some sectors remain difficult. Credit outstanding for housing has continued to expand at a solid pace, but dwelling prices are rising more slowly than earlier in the year.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market has continued to firm gradually, and after the significant decline last year, growth in wages has picked up a little, as had been expected. Underlying inflation appears likely to be in the upper half of the target zone over the next year. The rate of CPI increase is likely to be a little above 3\'a0per cent in the near term, due to the effects of increases in tobacco taxes announced earlier in the year and significant increases in prices for utilities.\cb1 \
\cb2 The current setting of monetary policy is resulting in interest rates to borrowers around their average levels of the past decade. Pending further information about international and local conditions for demand and prices, the Board views this setting of monetary policy as appropriate.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.5\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Since the Board last met, concerns about sovereign creditworthiness in several European countries have been a focus of financial markets. Investors have generally displayed a good deal more caution. As a result, equity prices have fallen and long-term government bond rates have declined outside of the countries most affected by the sovereign concerns. The Australian dollar fell sharply as part of this adjustment. Commodity prices have also softened, though those important for Australia remain at very high levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 European policymakers have responded by assembling a large package to provide financing for the relevant countries for a period of time, stabilise bond markets and provide liquidity. They have also committed to action to bring budget deficits down and stabilise debt over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 The effects of these various factors on the world economy will need to remain under review. At this stage, global growth is still expected to be at about trend pace in 2010. Conditions in Europe overall have been relatively weak, and the foreshadowed budgetary tightening will probably mean that this will continue, but growth is becoming more established in North America. In Asia, growth has continued to be quite strong and may need to moderate in the year ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, with the high level of the terms of trade expected to add to incomes and demand, output growth over the year ahead is likely to be about trend, even though the effects of earlier expansionary policy measures will be diminishing. Inflation appears likely to be in the upper half of the target zone over the next year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Consistent with that outlook, and as a result of actions at previous meetings, interest rates to borrowers are around their average levels of the past decade, which is a significant adjustment from the very expansionary settings reached a year ago. Taking all the available information into account, the Board views this setting of monetary policy as appropriate for the near term.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to raise the cash rate by 25 basis points to 4.5\'a0per cent, effective 5\'a0May\'a02010.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recently, forecasts for world GDP growth have been revised up again, and growth is expected to be at trend pace or a little above in 2010. Conditions in Europe remain quite weak, though recent data suggest growth is becoming more established in North America. In Asia, where financial sectors are not impaired, growth has continued to be strong, contributing to pressure on prices for raw materials. The authorities in several countries outside the major industrial economies have now started to reduce the degree of stimulus to their economies.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global financial markets are functioning much better than they were a year ago, but sovereign risk concerns have escalated significantly in Europe over recent weeks. This has prompted additional efforts by policymakers to put fiscal policies onto a sounder footing and to provide support for Greece in the near term. To date, there has been very little contagion outside Europe.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade are rising by more than earlier expected, and this year will probably regain the peak seen in 2008. This will add to incomes and foster a build-up in investment in the resources sector. Under these conditions, output growth over the year ahead is likely to exceed that seen last year, even though the effects of earlier expansionary policy measures will be diminishing. The process of business sector deleveraging is moderating, with business credit stabilising and indications that lenders are starting to become more willing to lend to some borrowers, though credit conditions for some sectors remain difficult. Credit outstanding for housing has been expanding at a solid pace. New loan approvals for housing have moderated over recent months as interest rates have risen and the impact of large grants to first-home buyers has tailed off. Nonetheless, at this point the market for established dwellings is still characterised by considerable buoyancy, with prices continuing to increase over recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent data on inflation confirm that it has declined from its peak in 2008, helped by a noticeable slowing in private-sector labour costs during 2009, the rise in the exchange rate and the earlier period of slower growth in demand. In both underlying and CPI terms, inflation over the most recent 12\'a0months was around 3\'a0per cent. Nonetheless, the extent of decline from here may not be quite as much as earlier forecast and inflation now appears likely to be in the upper half of the target zone over the coming year.\cb1 \
\cb2 With the risk of serious economic contraction in Australia having passed some time ago, the Board has been adjusting the cash rate towards levels that would be consistent with interest rates to borrowers being close to the average experience over the past decade or more. The Board expects that, as a result of today's decision, rates for most borrowers will be around average levels. This represents a significant adjustment from the very expansionary settings reached a year ago.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board will continue to assess prospects for demand and inflation, and set monetary policy as needed to achieve an average inflation rate of 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to raise the cash rate by 25 basis points to 4.25\'a0per\'a0cent, effective 7\'a0April 2010.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is growing, and world GDP is expected to rise at close to trend pace in 2010 and 2011. The expansion is still hesitant in the major countries, due to the continuing legacy of the financial crisis, resulting in ongoing excess capacity. In Asia, where financial sectors are not impaired, growth has continued to be quite strong, contributing to pressure on prices for raw materials. The authorities in several countries outside the major industrial economies have now started to reduce the degree of stimulus to their economies.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global financial markets are functioning much better than they were a year ago and the extraordinary support from governments and central banks is gradually being wound back. Credit conditions remain difficult in some major countries as banks continue to face loan losses associated with the period of economic weakness. The concerns regarding some sovereigns appear to have been contained at this stage.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade are rising, adding to incomes and fostering a build-up in investment in the resources sector. Under these conditions, output growth over the year ahead is likely to exceed that seen last year, even though the effects of earlier expansionary policy measures will be diminishing. The rate of unemployment appears to have peaked at a much lower level than earlier expected. The process of business sector de-leveraging is moderating, with the pace of the decline in business credit lessening and indications that lenders are starting to become more willing to lend to some borrowers. Credit for housing has been expanding at a solid pace. New loan approvals for housing have moderated over recent months as interest rates have risen and the impact of large grants to first-home buyers has tailed off. Nonetheless, at this point the market for established dwellings is still characterised by considerable buoyancy, with prices continuing to increase in the early part of 2010.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has, as expected, declined in underlying terms from its peak in 2008, helped by a noticeable slowing in private-sector labour costs during 2009, the rise in the exchange rate and the earlier period of slower growth in demand. CPI inflation has risen somewhat recently as temporary factors that had been holding it to quite low rates are now abating. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the target in 2010.\cb1 \
\cb2 With the risk of serious economic contraction in Australia having passed some time ago, the Board has been lessening the degree of monetary stimulus that was put in place when the outlook appeared to be much weaker. Lenders have generally raised rates a little more than the cash rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates to most borrowers nonetheless have been somewhat lower than average. The Board judges that with growth likely to be around trend and inflation close to target over the coming year, it is appropriate for interest rates to be closer to average. Today's decision is a further step in that process.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to raise the cash rate by 25 basis points to 4.0\'a0per cent, effective 3\'a0March 2010.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is growing, and world GDP is expected to rise at close to trend pace in 2010 and 2011. The expansion is still hesitant in the major countries, due to the continuing legacy of the financial crisis, resulting in ongoing excess capacity. In Asia, where financial sectors are not impaired, growth has continued to be quite strong. The authorities in some countries are now seeking to reduce the degree of stimulus to their economies.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global financial markets are functioning much better than they were a year ago and the extraordinary support from governments and central banks is gradually being wound back. Credit conditions remain difficult in some major countries as banks continue to face loan losses associated with the period of economic weakness. Concerns regarding some sovereigns remain elevated.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, economic conditions in 2009 were stronger than expected, after a mild downturn a year ago. The rate of unemployment appears to have peaked at a much lower level than earlier expected. Labour market data and a range of business surveys suggest growth in the economy may have already been at or close to trend for a few months. There are some signs that the process of business sector de-leveraging is moderating, with the pace of decline in business credit lessening and indications that lenders are starting to become more willing to lend to some borrowers. Investment in the resources sector is very strong. Credit for housing has been expanding at a solid pace, and dwelling prices have risen significantly over the past year. New loan approvals for housing have moderated a little over recent months, however, as interest rates have risen and the impact of large grants to first-home buyers has tailed off.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has, as expected, declined in underlying terms from its peak in 2008, helped by the fall in commodity prices at the end of 2008, a noticeable slowing in private-sector labour costs during 2009, the rise in the exchange rate and the earlier period of slower growth in demand. CPI inflation has risen somewhat recently as temporary factors that had been holding it to unusually low rates are now abating. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the target in 2010.\cb1 \
\cb2 With the risk of serious economic contraction in Australia having passed, the Board moved late last year to lessen the degree of monetary stimulus that had been put in place when the outlook appeared to be much weaker. Lenders generally raised rates a little more than the cash rate and most loan rates rose by close to a percentage point.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates to most borrowers nonetheless remain lower than average. The Board judges that with growth likely to be close to trend and inflation close to target over the coming year, it is appropriate for interest rates to be closer to average. Today's decision is a further step in that process.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.75 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is growing, and world GDP is expected to rise at close to trend pace in 2010 and 2011. The expansion is still likely to be modest in the major countries, due to the continuing legacy of the financial crisis, resulting in ongoing excess capacity. In Asia, where financial sectors are not impaired, recovery has been much quicker to date, though the Chinese authorities are now seeking to reduce the degree of stimulus to their economy. Global financial markets are functioning much better than they were a year ago. Credit conditions nonetheless remain difficult in the major countries as banks continue to face loan losses associated with the period of economic weakness. Concerns regarding some sovereigns have increased.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, economic conditions have been stronger than expected, after a mild downturn a year ago. The effects of the fiscal stimulus on consumer demand have now faded, but household finances are being supported by strong labour market outcomes and a recovery in net worth. Public infrastructure spending is now boosting demand, as is an upturn in housing construction. Investment in the resources sector is strong. The rate of unemployment appears to have peaked at a much lower level than earlier expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has, as expected, declined in underlying terms from its peak in 2008, helped by the fall in commodity prices at the end of 2008, a noticeable slowing in private\uc0\u8209 sector labour costs during 2009, the recent rise in the exchange rate and a period of slower growth in demand. CPI inflation has risen somewhat recently as temporary factors that had been holding it down are now abating. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the target in 2010.\cb1 \
\cb2 Credit for housing has been expanding at a solid pace, and dwelling prices have risen significantly over the past year. Business credit, in contrast, has continued to fall, as companies have sought to reduce leverage, and lenders have imposed tighter lending standards and in some cases sought to scale back their balance sheets. The decline in credit has been concentrated among large firms, which generally have had good access to equity capital and, more recently, to debt markets; credit conditions remain difficult for many smaller businesses.\cb1 \
\cb2 With the risk of serious economic contraction in Australia having passed, the Board had moved at recent meetings to lessen the degree of monetary stimulus that was put in place when the outlook appeared to be much weaker. Lenders have generally raised rates a little more than the cash rate over recent months and most loan rates have risen by close to a percentage point. Since information about the early impact of those changes is still limited, the Board judged it appropriate to hold a steady setting of monetary policy for the time being.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates to most borrowers nonetheless remain lower than average. If economic conditions evolve broadly as expected, the Board considers it likely that monetary policy will, over time, need to be adjusted further in order to ensure that inflation remains consistent with the target over the medium term.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25\'a0basis points to 4.25\'a0per\'a0cent, effective 7\'a0December 2011.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy has moderated this year after a strong performance in 2010. Some of the slowing reflected temporary factors, and as these passed, the pace of expansion in the United States and much of Asia began to pick up around mid year. China's growth has been slowing, as policymakers there had intended. Trade in Asia is now, however, seeing some effects of a significant slowing in economic activity in Europe.\cb1 \
\cb2 The sovereign credit and banking problems in Europe, to which European governments are still seeking to craft a full response, are likely to weigh on economic activity there over the period ahead. Financial markets have experienced considerable turbulence, and financing conditions have become much more difficult, especially in Europe. This, together with precautionary behaviour by firms and households, means that the likelihood of a further material slowing in global growth has increased. Commodity prices have reflected this, declining further over recent months and taking pressure off CPI inflation rates. This has increased the scope for some easing in monetary policy in a number of countries.\cb1 \
\cb2 Information about the Australian economy suggests output growth has been close to trend, with demand growth stronger than that. The terms of trade have now peaked and will decline somewhat in the near term, but they remain very high. In response, investment in the resources sector is picking up very strongly, with much more to come. Some related service sectors are enjoying better-than-average conditions. In other sectors, changed behaviour by households and the high exchange rate have had a noticeable dampening effect. The unemployment rate has increased a little since mid year, though it remains close to 5\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 CPI inflation on a year-ended basis remained above the target at the latest reading, due to the effects of weather events last summer, but is now starting to decline as production of key crops recovers. Moreover, with labour market conditions now softer, the likelihood of a significant acceleration in labour costs outside the resources and related sectors in the near term has lessened. Accordingly, the Bank's current judgement is that inflation is likely to be consistent with the 2\'963 per cent target in 2012 and 2013, abstracting from the impact of the carbon pricing scheme.\cb1 \
\cb2 The reduction in the cash rate as a result of the Board's previous decision flowed through to lending rates, which are now around their average level of the past 15 years. Short-term market interest rates have tended to decline a little further in recent weeks, though term funding conditions for financial institutions have become more difficult. Credit growth remains subdued and asset prices have declined further over recent months. The exchange rate has been quite variable over the past few months, but remains at an historically high level.\cb1 \
\cb2 Overall, the Board concluded, on the basis of all the available information, that the inflation outlook afforded scope for a modest reduction in the cash rate. The Board will continue to set policy as needed to foster sustainable growth and low inflation over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25 basis points to 4.5 per cent, effective 2\'a0November 2011.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information is consistent with a moderation in the pace of global growth, though fears of a major downturn have not been borne out so far. The pace of US economic expansion picked up in the September quarter, but is still only moderate and leaves considerable spare capacity. China's growth has slowed, as policymakers there had intended. Output in Asia has now recovered from the effects of the Japanese earthquake, and domestic demand in the region is generally expanding. Trade performance, however, is starting to see some effects of a significant slowing in economic activity in Europe, where the prospects are for economic weakness to continue. Commodity prices, while still at high levels, have generally declined over recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have recovered somewhat from the turmoil of recent months, helped by stronger economic data in the United States and by signs that European governments are making progress in their efforts to deal with the sovereign debt and banking problems. Equity markets have gained ground and the Australian dollar has risen significantly as risk aversion has lessened. But it is likely to be some time yet before concerns about the European situation can definitively be laid to rest and the effects of the recent turmoil on confidence may result in a period of precautionary behaviour by firms and households.\cb1 \
\cb2 Information about the Australian economy suggests moderate growth overall. The terms of trade have now peaked and will decline somewhat in the near term, but they remain very high. In response, investment in the resources sector is picking up very strongly, with much more to come. Some related service sectors are enjoying better-than-average conditions. In other sectors, cautious behaviour by households and the high exchange rate have had a noticeable dampening effect. The unemployment rate has increased a little over recent months, though it remains close to 5\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 After underlying inflation started to pick up in the first half of the year, recent information suggests the subdued demand conditions and the high exchange rate have contained inflation more recently, notwithstanding continuing sizeable increases in utilities charges. CPI inflation on a year-ended basis remains above the target, due to the effects of weather events last summer, but is now starting to decline as production of key crops recovers. Moreover, with labour market conditions now softer, the likelihood of a significant acceleration in labour costs outside the resources and related sectors in the near term has lessened. Accordingly, the Bank's current judgement is that inflation is likely to be consistent with the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target in 2012 and 2013, abstracting from the impact of the carbon pricing scheme.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions have been easing somewhat recently, with market interest rates declining a little and competition to lend increasing. But overall conditions have remained tighter than normal, with borrowing rates still a little higher than average, credit growth subdued and asset prices lower than earlier in the year. The exchange rate has been very variable over the past few months, but on the whole has remained at historically high levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over the past year, the Board has maintained a mildly restrictive stance of monetary policy, in view of its concerns about inflation. With overall growth moderate, inflation now likely to be close to target and confidence subdued outside the resources sector, the Board concluded that a more neutral stance of monetary policy would now be consistent with achieving sustainable growth and 2\'963\'a0per cent inflation over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.75\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in global financial markets have continued to be very unsettled, with uncertainty increasing about both the prospects for resolution of the sovereign debt and banking problems in Europe, and the outlook for global economic growth. While temporary impediments that had contributed to a slowing in growth in some countries over recent months are lessening, recent data suggest a continuing period of soft economic conditions in both Europe and the United States. Moreover, the uncertainty and financial volatility have reduced confidence, which could result in more cautious behaviour by firms and households in major countries.\cb1 \
\cb2 It will take more time for evidence of any effects of the recent European and US financial turbulence on economic activity in other regions to emerge. Thus far, indications are that economic activity is continuing to expand in China and most of Asia. Nonetheless, recent events have led forecasters to reduce their estimates for global GDP growth, which is now expected to be about average this year and next. Prices for commodities have declined over recent weeks, though in general they remain high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade are very high, which has increased national income considerably. Investment in the resources sector is picking up very strongly and some related service sectors are enjoying better than average conditions. In other sectors, cautious behaviour by households and the earlier rise in the exchange rate have had a noticeable dampening effect. The impetus from earlier Australian Government spending programs is now also abating, as had been intended. While there remain good reasons to expect solid growth over the medium term, the indications are that the pace of near-term growth is unlikely to be as strong as earlier expected, due both to local and global factors, including the financial turmoil and related effects on business confidence.\cb1 \
\cb2 Underlying inflation stopped falling and began to increase earlier this year. The Board has been concerned about the prospect of a further pick-up over the period ahead, but over recent months has been weighing the question of whether a period of weaker than expected conditions would contain that pick-up in inflation. Recently revised data show a pick-up to date in the underlying pace of price rises that was less sharp than initially indicated. Moreover, with labour market conditions now a little softer and households more concerned about the possibility of unemployment rising, the likelihood of a significant acceleration in labour costs outside the resources and related sectors is lessening.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking into account all the recent information, the path for inflation may now be more consistent with the 2\'963 per cent target in 2012 and 2013, abstracting from the impact of the carbon pricing scheme. This assessment will be reviewed on receipt of further data on prices ahead of the Board's next meeting. An improved inflation outlook would increase the scope for monetary policy to provide some support to demand, should that prove necessary.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board noted that financial conditions have been easing somewhat, with interest rates for some housing and business loans declining slightly due to increased competition and the fall in some funding costs in financial markets. The exchange rate has also declined from the very high levels of a few months ago. Credit growth remains low, however, and asset prices have declined.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting the Board judged the current cash rate remained appropriate. As always, the Board will continue to assess carefully the evolving outlook for growth and inflation.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.75\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in global financial markets have been very unsettled over recent weeks, as participants have confronted uncertainty about both the resolution of sovereign debt problems and the prospects for economic growth in Europe and the United States. As a result, the outlook for the global economy is less clear than it was earlier in the year. Some temporary impediments that had contributed to a slowing in growth in some countries over recent months, such as the supply-chain disruptions from the Japanese earthquake and the dampening effects of rising commodity prices, are lessening. But the uncertainty and financial volatility is reducing confidence and may result in more cautious behaviour by firms and households in major countries. A number of forecasters have scaled back their global growth estimates over the past couple of months.\cb1 \
\cb2 At this stage, little evidence is available to gauge any effects of the European and US problems on other regions. Prices for key Australian commodities have remained very high thus far, with growth in China continuing to look solid. As a result, Australia's terms of trade are now at very high levels and national income has been growing strongly. Investment in the resources sector is picking up very strongly and some related service sectors are enjoying better than average conditions. In other sectors, cautious behaviour by households and the high level of the exchange rate are having a noticeable dampening effect. The impetus from earlier Australian Government spending programs is now also abating, as had been intended. Overall, the near-term growth outlook continues to look somewhat weaker than was expected a few months ago. Beyond the near term, growth is still likely to be at trend or higher, unless the world economic outlook continues to deteriorate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in employment has been moderate this year and the unemployment rate has been little changed, near 5\'a0per cent, for some time now. Reports of skills shortages remain confined to the resources and related sectors. After the significant decline in 2009, growth in wages has returned to rates seen prior to the downturn, though productivity growth has been weak.\cb1 \
\cb2 Year-ended CPI inflation should start to decline towards the end of the year, as temporary weather-related effects reverse. But measures of underlying inflation have been increasing this year, after declining for the previous two years. While they have, to date, remained consistent with the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target on a year-ended basis, the Board remains concerned about the medium-term outlook for inflation. A key question will be the extent to which softer global and domestic growth will work, in due course, to contain inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 Most financial indicators suggest that monetary policy has been exerting a degree of restraint. Credit growth has declined over recent months and is very subdued by historical standards, even with evidence of greater willingness to lend. Most asset prices, including housing prices, have also softened. The exchange rate is high. Each of these variables is affected by other factors as well, but together they point to financial conditions being tighter than normal.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that it was prudent to maintain the current stance of monetary policy. In future meetings, the Board will continue to assess carefully the evolving outlook for growth and inflation.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.75\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing its expansion, but the pace of growth slowed in the June quarter. The supply-chain disruptions from the Japanese earthquake and the dampening effects of high commodity prices on income and spending in major countries both contributed to the slowing. It is still not clear how persistent this slower growth will be. The supply-chain disruptions are now gradually abating and commodity prices have softened of late, though they generally remain high. In China most indications suggest only a mild slowdown so far.\cb1 \
\cb2 The central scenario for the world economy over the next couple of years envisaged by most forecasters remains one of growth below the pace of 2010, but at or above long-term averages. Downside risks have increased, however, as concerns have grown over the outlook for the public finances of both Europe and the United States.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade are now at very high levels and national income has been growing strongly. Investment in the resources sector is picking up very strongly and some related service sectors are enjoying better than average conditions. But in other sectors, cautious behaviour by households and the high level of the exchange rate are having a noticeable dampening effect. The impetus from earlier Australian Government spending programs is now also abating, as had been intended.\cb1 \
\cb2 The resumption of coal production continues, but a full recovery of flood-affected production now looks unlikely before early next year. Precautionary behaviour by households also looks likely to keep some areas of demand weaker in the near term than earlier expected. Overall, growth in real GDP through 2011 is now likely to be at about trend. Over the medium term, overall growth is still likely to be at trend or higher, unless the world economy deteriorates noticeably.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in employment has moderated and the unemployment rate has been little changed, near 5\'a0per cent, for some time now. Reports of skills shortages remain confined, at this point, to the resources and related sectors. After the significant decline in 2009, growth in wages has returned to rates seen prior to the downturn, though productivity growth remains weak.\cb1 \
\cb2 Year-ended CPI inflation has been high, affected by the extreme weather events earlier in the year. As these effects reverse over the next couple of quarters, CPI inflation should decline. But measures that give a better indication of the trend in inflation have begun to rise over the past six months, after declining for the previous two years. While they have, to date, remained consistent with the 2\'963\'a0per cent target on a year-ended basis, the Board remains concerned about the medium-term outlook for inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 It is appropriate under such circumstances for monetary policy to exert a degree of restraint. Most financial indicators suggest that it has been doing so, as a result of the Board's decisions last year. Credit growth has declined over recent months and is very subdued by historical standards, even with evidence of greater willingness to lend. Most asset prices, including housing prices, have also softened over recent months. The exchange rate is high. Each of these variables is affected by other factors as well, but together they point to financial conditions being tighter than normal.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board considered whether the recent information warranted further policy tightening. On balance, the Board judged that it was prudent to maintain the current setting of monetary policy, particularly in view of the acute sense of uncertainty in global financial markets over recent weeks. In future meetings, the Board will continue to assess carefully the evolving outlook for growth and inflation.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.75\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing its expansion, but the pace of growth slowed in the June quarter. The supply-chain disruptions from the Japanese earthquake and the dampening effects of high commodity prices on income and spending in major countries have both contributed to the slowing. The banking and sovereign debt problems in Europe have also added to uncertainty and volatility in financial markets over recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 A key question is whether this more moderate pace of growth will continue. Commodity prices have generally softened of late, though they remain at very high levels. Despite the challenging international environment, the central scenario for the world economy envisaged by most forecasters remains one of growth at, or above, average over the next couple of years. A number of countries have tightened monetary policy but, overall, global financial conditions remain accommodative and underlying rates of inflation have tended to move higher.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade are now at very high levels and national income has been growing strongly, though conditions vary significantly across industries. Investment in the resources sector is picking up strongly in response to high levels of commodity prices and the outlook remains very positive. A number of service sectors are also expanding at a solid pace. In other areas, cautious behaviour by households and the high level of the exchange rate are having a noticeable dampening effect. The impetus from earlier Australian Government spending programs is now also abating, as had been intended.\cb1 \
\cb2 A gradual recovery from the floods and cyclones over the summer is taking place, though the resumption of coal production in flooded mines continues to proceed more slowly than initially expected. The recovery will boost output over the months ahead, and there will also be a mild boost to demand from the broader rebuilding efforts as they get under way, but growth through 2011 is now unlikely to be as strong as earlier forecast. Over the medium term, overall growth is still likely to be at trend or higher, if the world economy grows as expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in employment has moderated over recent months and the unemployment rate has been little changed, near 5 per cent. Most leading indicators suggest that this slower pace of employment growth is likely to continue in the near term. Reports of skills shortages remain confined, at this point, to the resources and related sectors. After the significant decline in 2009, growth in wages has returned to rates seen prior to the downturn.\cb1 \
\cb2 Credit growth remains modest. Signs have continued to emerge of some greater willingness to lend and business credit has expanded this year after a period of contraction. Growth in credit to households, on the other hand, has slowed. Most asset prices, including housing prices, have also softened over recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Year-ended CPI inflation is likely to remain elevated in the near term due to the extreme weather events earlier in the year. However, as the temporary price shocks dissipate, CPI inflation is expected to be close to target over the next 12 months. In underlying terms, inflation has been in the bottom half of the target range, though a gradual increase is expected over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that the current mildly restrictive stance of monetary policy remained appropriate. In future meetings, the Board will continue to assess carefully the evolving outlook for growth and inflation.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.75\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing its expansion, led by very strong growth in the Asian region, though the recent disaster in Japan is having a major impact on Japanese production, and significant effects on production of some manufactured products further afield. Commodity prices have generally softened a little of late, but they remain at very high levels, which is weighing on income and demand in major countries and also pushing up measures of consumer price inflation. In response, a number of the countries with stronger expansions have been moving to tighten their monetary policy settings over recent months. Overall, though, financial conditions for the global economy remain accommodative. Uncertainty over the prospects for resolution of the banking and sovereign debt problems in Europe has increased over the past couple of months, which has been adding to financial market volatility.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade are reaching very high levels and national income has been growing strongly. Private investment is picking up, led by very large capital spending programs in the resources sector, in response to high levels of commodity prices. Outside the resources sector, investment intentions have been revised lower recently. In the household sector thus far, there continues to be a degree of caution in spending and borrowing and a higher rate of saving out of current income. The impetus from earlier Australian Government spending programs is now also abating, as had been intended.\cb1 \
\cb2 The floods and cyclones over the summer have reduced output in some key sectors. As a result there was a sharp fall in real GDP in the March quarter, despite a solid increase in aggregate demand. The resumption of coal production in flooded mines is taking longer than initially expected, but production levels are now increasing again and there will be a mild boost to demand from the broader rebuilding efforts as they get under way. Over the medium term, overall growth is likely to be at trend or higher.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in employment has moderated over recent months and the unemployment rate has been little changed, near 5\'a0per cent. Most leading indicators suggest that this slower pace of employment growth is likely to continue in the near term. Reports of skills shortages remain confined, at this point, to the resources and related sectors. After the significant decline in 2009, growth in wages has returned to rates seen prior to the downturn.\cb1 \
\cb2 Overall credit growth remains quite modest. Signs have continued to emerge of some greater willingness to lend, and business credit has expanded this year after a period of contraction. Growth in credit to households, on the other hand, has softened, as have housing prices. The exchange rate remains, in real effective terms, close to its highest level in several decades. If sustained, this could be expected to exert continued restraint on the traded sector.\cb1 \
\cb2 CPI inflation has risen over the past year, reflecting the effects of extreme weather and rises in utilities prices, with lower prices for traded goods providing some offset. The weather-affected prices should fall back later in the year, though substantial rises in utilities prices are still occurring. The Bank expects that, as the temporary price shocks dissipate over the coming quarters, CPI inflation will be close to target over the next 12\'a0months.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that the current mildly restrictive stance of monetary policy remained appropriate. In future meetings, the Board will continue to assess carefully the evolving outlook for growth and inflation.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.75\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing its expansion, led by very strong growth in the Asian region. The recent disaster in Japan is having a major impact on Japanese production, and some effects on production of manufactured products further afield. Commodity prices, including oil prices, have generally continued to rise over recent months, pushing up measures of consumer price inflation in many countries. A number of countries have been moving to tighten their monetary policy settings. Overall, though, financial conditions for the global economy remain accommodative. Uncertainty remains over the prospects for resolution of the banking and sovereign debt issues in Europe.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade are reaching higher levels than assumed a few months ago, and national income is growing strongly. Private investment is picking up, mainly in the resources sector, in response to high levels of commodity prices. In the household sector thus far, in contrast, there continues to be caution in spending and borrowing, and a higher rate of saving out of current income.\cb1 \
\cb2 The natural disasters over the summer have reduced output in some key sectors and the resumption of coal production in flooded mines is taking longer than initially expected. It is likely this caused a decline in real GDP in the March quarter. Production levels should, however, recover over the months ahead, and there will be a mild boost to demand from the rebuilding efforts as they get under way. Over the medium term, overall growth is likely to be at trend or higher.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in employment has moderated over recent months and the unemployment rate has been little changed, near 5\'a0per cent. Most leading indicators suggest further growth in employment, though most likely at a slower pace than in 2010. Reports of skills shortages remain confined, at this point, to the resources and related sectors. After the significant decline in 2009, growth in wages has returned to rates seen prior to the downturn.\cb1 \
\cb2 Overall credit growth remains quite modest. Signs have continued to emerge of some greater willingness to lend, and business credit has resumed growth after a period of contraction. Growth in credit to households, on the other hand, has softened recently, as have housing prices in several cities. The exchange rate has risen further and, in real effective terms, is at its highest level in several decades. This, if sustained, could be expected to exert additional restraint on the traded sector.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent data on inflation show the effects of production losses due to the floods and Cyclone\'a0Yasi. The affected prices should fall back later in the year, though substantial rises in utilities prices are still occurring. The Bank expects that, as the temporary price shocks dissipate over the coming quarters, CPI inflation will be close to target over the year ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking through these short-term movements, however, the recent information suggests that the marked decline in underlying inflation from the peak in 2008 has now run its course. While the rising exchange rate will be helping to hold down prices for some consumer products over the coming few quarters, over the longer term inflation can be expected to increase somewhat if economic conditions evolve broadly as expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that the current mildly restrictive stance of monetary policy remained appropriate. In future meetings, the Board will continue to assess carefully the evolving outlook for growth and inflation.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.75\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing its expansion, led by very strong growth in the Asian region. The recent disaster in Japan will have a noticeable effect on Japanese production in the near term, although the impact on the broader Asian region is expected to be limited. Commodity prices, including oil prices, have risen over recent months, pushing up measures of consumer price inflation in many countries. A number of countries have been moving to tighten their monetary policy settings. Overall, though, financial conditions for the global economy remain accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade are at their highest level since the early 1950s and national income is growing strongly. Private investment is picking up, mainly in the resources sector, in response to high levels of commodity prices. In the household sector thus far, in contrast, there continues to be caution in spending and borrowing, and a higher rate of saving out of current income. The natural disasters over the summer have reduced output and the resumption of coal production in flooded mines is taking longer than initially expected. Production levels should, however, recover over the months ahead, and there will be a mild boost to demand from the rebuilding efforts as they get under way.\cb1 \
\cb2 Asset values have generally been little changed over recent months and overall credit growth remains quite subdued, notwithstanding evidence of some greater willingness to lend. Business balance sheets generally are being strengthened, and the run\uc0\u8209 up in household leverage has abated.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in employment has moderated over recent months and the unemployment rate has held steady at 5\'a0per\'a0cent. Most leading indicators suggest further growth in employment, though most likely at a slower pace than in 2010. Reports of skills shortages remain confined, at this point, to the resources and related sectors. After the significant decline in 2009, growth in wages has returned to rates seen prior to the downturn.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is consistent with the medium-term objective of monetary policy, having declined significantly from its peak in 2008. These moderate outcomes are being assisted by the high level of the exchange rate, the earlier decline in wages growth and strong competition in some key markets, which have worked to offset large rises in utilities prices. Production losses due to weather are temporarily raising prices for some agricultural produce, which will boost the March quarter CPI, but these prices should fall back later in the year. Overall, looking through these temporary effects, the Bank expects that inflation over the year ahead will continue to be consistent with the 2\'963\'a0per cent target.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that the current mildly restrictive stance of monetary policy remained appropriate in view of the general macroeconomic outlook.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.75\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing its expansion, led by very strong growth in the Asian region. Commodity prices have risen further over recent months, pushing up measures of consumer price inflation in many countries. A number of countries have been moving to tighten their monetary policy settings. Overall, though, financial conditions for the global economy remain accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade are at their highest level since the early 1950s and national income is growing strongly. Private investment is picking up, mainly in the resources sector, in response to high levels of commodity prices. In the household sector thus far, in contrast, there continues to be caution in spending and borrowing, and a higher rate of saving out of current income. The effects of the natural disasters over the summer have reduced output, but production levels should recover over the months ahead, and there will be a mild boost to demand from the rebuilding efforts as they get under way.\cb1 \
\cb2 Asset values have generally been little changed over recent months and overall credit growth remains quite subdued, notwithstanding evidence of some greater willingness to lend. Business balance sheets generally are being strengthened, and the run-up in household leverage has abated.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market firmed in 2010, with unusually strong growth in employment and a decline in the rate of unemployment. Most leading indicators suggest further growth in employment, though most likely at a slower pace. Reports of skills shortages remain confined, at this point, to the resources and related sectors. After the significant decline in 2009, growth in wages has returned to rates seen prior to the downturn.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is consistent with the medium-term objective of monetary policy, having declined significantly from its peak in 2008. These moderate outcomes are being assisted by the high level of the exchange rate, the earlier decline in wages growth and strong competition in some key markets, which have worked to offset large rises in utilities prices. Production losses due to weather are temporarily raising prices for some agricultural produce, but these should fall back later in the year. Overall, looking through these temporary effects, the Bank expects that inflation over the year ahead will continue to be consistent with the 2\'963\'a0per cent target.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that the current mildly restrictive stance of monetary policy remained appropriate in view of the general macroeconomic outlook.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.75\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global output grew strongly in 2010, notwithstanding the relatively subdued performance of several of the major economies. The Chinese and Indian economies in particular have recorded very strong expansions, and price pressures, particularly for food and raw materials, have picked up. Concerns about sovereign creditworthiness in Europe have remained prominent and uncertainty from this source seems likely to persist for some time. Overall, however, the global economy continues to look strong going into 2011. Commodity prices have remained high and in many instances have risen further over recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade are at their highest level since the early 1950s and national income is growing strongly. There have been further indications that private investment is beginning to pick up in response to high levels of commodity prices. In the household sector thus far, in contrast, there continues to be caution in spending and borrowing, and an increase in the saving rate. Asset values have generally been little changed over recent months and overall credit growth remains quite subdued, notwithstanding evidence of some greater willingness to lend.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment growth was unusually strong in 2010. Most leading indicators suggest further growth, though most likely at a slower pace. After the significant decline in 2009, growth in wages picked up somewhat last year. Some further increase is likely over the coming year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is consistent with the medium-term objective of monetary policy, having declined significantly from its peak in 2008. Recent data show underlying inflation at around 2\'bc\'a0per cent in 2010. The CPI rose by about 2\'be\'a0per cent, reflecting the once-off effect of the increase in tobacco excise. These moderate outcomes are being assisted by the high level of the exchange rate, the earlier decline in wages growth and strong competition in some key markets, which have worked to offset large rises in utilities prices. The Bank expects that inflation over the year ahead will continue to be consistent with the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target.\cb1 \
\cb2 The flooding in Queensland and Victoria is having a temporary adverse effect on economic activity and prices. Some production of crops and resources has been lost and some other forms of economic output have also been lower in the affected areas.\cb1 \
\cb2 Prices for the relevant commodities have risen and are likely to remain elevated in the near term. Resumption of production is occurring at differing speeds by region and industry. In setting monetary policy the Bank will, as on past occasions where natural disasters have occurred, look through the estimated effects of these short-term events on activity and prices. The focus of monetary policy will remain on medium-term prospects for economic activity and inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 The floods also resulted in damage or destruction to physical capital in the affected regions. Over the next year or two, the efforts to repair or replace infrastructure and housing will add modestly to aggregate demand, compared with what would otherwise likely have occurred. The extent of this net additional effect will depend on the full extent of the damage, the speed of the rebuilding, and the extent to which other public and private spending is deferred. The Bank's preliminary assessment is that the net additional demand from rebuilding is unlikely to have a major impact on the medium-term outlook for inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank will of course continue to assess the effects of the floods and the subsequent recovery, along with all the other factors having a bearing on economic conditions. At today's meeting, the Board judged that the current stance of monetary policy remained appropriate in view of the general macroeconomic outlook.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to reduce the cash rate by 25 basis points to 3.0 per cent, effective 5\'a0December\'a02012.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global growth is forecast to be a little below average for a time. Risks to the outlook are still seen to be on the downside, largely as a result of the situation in Europe, though the uncertainty over the course of US fiscal policy is also weighing on sentiment at present. Recent data suggest that the US economy is recording moderate growth and that growth in China has stabilised. Around Asia generally, growth has been dampened by the more moderate Chinese expansion and the weakness in Europe.\cb1 \
\cb2 Key commodity prices for Australia remain significantly lower than earlier in the year, though trends have been more mixed over the past few months. The terms of trade have declined by about 15 per cent since the peak, to a level that is still historically high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sentiment in financial markets remains better than it was in mid year, in response to signs of progress in addressing Europe's financial problems, though Europe is likely to remain a source of instability for some time. Long-term interest rates faced by highly rated sovereigns, including Australia, remain at exceptionally low levels. Capital markets remain open to corporations and well-rated banks, and Australian banks have had no difficulty accessing funding, including on an unsecured basis. Borrowing conditions for large corporations are similarly attractive and share prices have risen since mid year.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, most indicators available for this meeting suggest that growth has been running close to trend over the past year, led by very large increases in capital spending in the resources sector, while some other sectors have experienced weaker conditions. Looking ahead, recent data confirm that the peak in resource investment is approaching. As it does, there will be more scope for some other areas of demand to strengthen.\cb1 \
\cb2 Private consumption spending is expected to grow, but a return to the very strong growth of some years ago is unlikely. Available information suggests that the near-term outlook for non-residential building investment, and investment generally outside the resources sector, remains relatively subdued. Public spending is forecast to be constrained. On the other hand, there are indications of a prospective improvement in dwelling investment, with dwelling prices moving a little higher, rental yields increasing and building approvals having turned up.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is consistent with the medium-term target, with underlying measures at around 2\'bd\'a0per cent. The introduction of the carbon price affected consumer prices in the September quarter, and there could be some further small effects over the next couple of quarters. Partly as a result of that, headline CPI inflation will rise above 3 per cent briefly. Looking further ahead, with the labour market softening somewhat and unemployment edging higher, conditions are working to contain pressure on labour costs. A continuation of moderate wage outcomes and improved productivity performance will be needed to keep inflation low, since the effects on prices of the earlier exchange rate appreciation are now waning. The Bank's assessment remains that inflation will be consistent with the target over the next one to two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over the past year, monetary policy has become more accommodative. There are signs of easier conditions starting to have some of the expected effects, though the exchange rate remains higher than might have been expected, given the observed decline in export prices and the weaker global outlook. While the full effects of earlier measures are yet to be observed, the Board judged at today's meeting that a further easing in the stance of monetary policy was appropriate now. This will help to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target over time.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.25\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global growth is forecast to be a little below average for a time. Risks to the outlook are still seen to be on the downside, largely as a result of the situation in Europe, where economic activity is still contracting. Risks elsewhere seem more balanced. The United States is recording moderate growth, while recent data from China suggest growth there has stabilised. Around Asia generally, growth has been dampened by the more moderate Chinese expansion and the weakness in Europe.\cb1 \
\cb2 Key commodity prices for Australia remain significantly lower than earlier in the year, though trends have been more mixed over the past couple of months, with some prices recovering some ground while others declined further. The terms of trade have declined by about 13\'a0per cent since the peak last year, but are likely to remain historically high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have responded positively over the past few months to signs of progress in addressing Europe's financial problems, but expectations for further progress remain high. Long-term interest rates faced by highly rated sovereigns, including Australia, remain at exceptionally low levels. Capital markets remain open to corporations and well-rated banks, and Australian banks have had no difficulty accessing funding, including on an unsecured basis. Borrowing conditions for large corporations are similarly attractive. Share markets have generally risen over recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, most indicators available for this meeting suggest that growth has been running close to trend over the past year, led by very large increases in capital spending in the resources sector. Looking ahead, the peak in resource investment is likely to occur next year, at a lower level than expected six months ago. As this peak approaches, the Board will be monitoring the strength of other components of demand.\cb1 \
\cb2 Some of the consumption strength in the first half of 2012 was temporary, but there have been some signs of ongoing growth, though a return to very strong growth in consumption is unlikely. While investment in dwellings has been subdued for some time, over recent months there have been some indications of a prospective improvement. Non-residential building investment has remained weak. Public spending is forecast to be subdued.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent outcomes on inflation were slightly higher than expected, though they still show inflation consistent with the medium-term target, with underlying measures around 2\'bd\'a0per cent over the year to September, and headline CPI inflation a little lower than that. The introduction of the carbon price affected consumer prices in the September quarter, and there could be some further small effects over the next couple of quarters. With the labour market having generally softened somewhat in recent months, and unemployment edging higher, conditions should work to contain pressure on labour costs in sectors other than those directly affected by the current strength in resources. This and some continuing improvement in productivity performance will be needed to keep inflation low, since the effects on prices of the earlier exchange rate appreciation are now waning. The Bank's assessment remains that inflation will be consistent with the target over the next one to two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over the past year, monetary policy has become more accommodative. Interest rates for borrowers have declined to be clearly below their medium-term averages and savers are facing increased incentives to look for assets with higher returns. While the impact of these changes takes some time to work through the economy, there are signs of easier conditions starting to have some of the expected effects. Business demand for external funding has increased this year, the housing market has strengthened and share prices have risen in line with markets overseas. The exchange rate, though, remains higher than might have been expected, given the observed decline in export prices and the weaker global outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 Further effects of actions already taken to ease monetary policy can be expected over time. The Board will continue to monitor those effects, together with information about the various other factors affecting the outlook for growth and inflation. At today's meeting, with prices data slightly higher than expected and recent information on the world economy slightly more positive, the Board judged that the stance of monetary policy was appropriate for the time being.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25 basis points to 3.25 per cent, effective 3\'a0October\'a02012.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for growth in the world economy has softened over recent months, with estimates for global GDP being edged down, and risks to the outlook still seen to be on the downside. Economic activity in Europe is contracting, while growth in the United States remains modest. Growth in China has also slowed, and uncertainty about near-term prospects is greater than it was some months ago. Around Asia generally, growth is being dampened by the more moderate Chinese expansion and the weakness in Europe.\cb1 \
\cb2 Key commodity prices for Australia remain significantly lower than earlier in the year, even though some have regained some ground in recent weeks. The terms of trade have declined by over 10 per cent since the peak last year and will probably decline further, though they are likely to remain historically high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have responded positively over the past few months to signs of progress in addressing Europe's financial problems, but expectations for further progress remain high. Low appetite for risk has seen long-term interest rates faced by highly rated sovereigns, including Australia, remain at exceptionally low levels. Nonetheless, capital markets remain open to corporations and well-rated banks, and Australian banks have had no difficulty accessing funding, including on an unsecured basis. Share markets have generally risen over recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, most indicators available for this meeting suggest that growth has been running close to trend, led by very large increases in capital spending in the resources sector. Consumption growth was quite firm in the first half of 2012, though some of that strength was temporary. Investment in dwellings has remained subdued, though there have been some tentative signs of improvement, while non-residential building investment has also remained weak. Looking ahead, the peak in resource investment is likely to occur next year, and may be at a lower level than earlier expected. As this peak approaches it will be important that the forecast strengthening in some other components of demand starts to occur.\cb1 \
\cb2 Labour market data have shown moderate employment growth and the rate of unemployment has thus far remained low. The Bank's assessment, though, is that the labour market has generally softened somewhat in recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has been low, with underlying measures near 2 per cent over the year to June, and headline CPI inflation lower than that. The introduction of the carbon price is affecting consumer prices in the current quarter, and this will continue over the next couple of quarters. Moderate labour market conditions should work to contain pressure on labour costs in sectors other than those directly affected by the current strength in resources. This and some continuing improvement in productivity performance will be needed to keep inflation low as the effects of the earlier exchange rate appreciation wane. The Bank's assessment remains, at this point, that inflation will be consistent with the target over the next one to two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates for borrowers have for some months been a little below their medium-term averages. There are tentative signs of this starting to have some of the expected effects, though the impact of monetary policy changes takes some time to work through the economy. However, credit growth has softened of late and the exchange rate has remained higher than might have been expected, given the observed decline in export prices and the weaker global outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that, on the back of international developments, the growth outlook for next year looked a little weaker, while inflation was expected to be consistent with the target. The Board therefore decided that it was appropriate for the stance of monetary policy to be a little more accommodative.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Having picked up in the early months of 2012, growth in the world economy has since softened. Current assessments are that global GDP will grow at no more than average pace in 2012, with risks to the outlook still on the downside. Economic activity in Europe is contracting, while growth in the United States is only modest. Growth in China remained reasonably robust in the first half of this year, albeit well below the exceptional pace seen in recent years. Some recent indicators have been weaker, which has added to uncertainty about near-term growth. Around Asia generally, growth is being dampened by the more moderate Chinese expansion and the weakness in Europe.\cb1 \
\cb2 Markets for key natural resources are adjusting accordingly. Some commodity prices of importance to Australia have fallen sharply in recent weeks. The terms of trade peaked a year ago and have declined significantly since then, though they remain historically high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have responded positively over the past couple of months to signs of progress in addressing Europe's financial problems, but expectations for further progress are high. Low appetite for risk has seen long-term interest rates faced by highly rated sovereigns, including Australia, remain at exceptionally low levels. Nonetheless, capital markets remain open to corporations and well-rated banks, and Australian banks have had no difficulty accessing funding, including on an unsecured basis. Share markets have generally risen over the past couple of months, on very light volumes.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, most indicators available for this meeting suggest growth has been running close to trend, led by very large increases in capital spending in the resources sector. Consumption growth was also quite firm in the first half of the year, though some of that strength was temporary. Labour market data have shown moderate employment growth, even with job shedding in some industries, and the rate of unemployment has thus far remained low.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low, with underlying measures near 2 per cent over the year to June, and headline CPI inflation lower than that. The introduction of the carbon price is starting to affect consumer prices in the current quarter, and this will continue over the next couple of quarters. The Bank's assessment is that inflation will be consistent with the target over the next one to two years. Maintaining low inflation will, however, require growth in domestic costs to remain contained as the effects of the earlier exchange rate appreciation wane.\cb1 \
\cb2 As a result of the sequence of earlier decisions, interest rates for borrowers are a little below their medium-term averages. The impact of those changes is still working its way through the economy, but dwelling prices have firmed a little and business credit has picked up this year. The exchange rate has declined over the past month or two, though it has remained higher than might have been expected, given the observed decline in export prices and the weaker global outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that, with inflation expected to be consistent with the target and growth close to trend, but with a more subdued international outlook than was the case a few months ago, the stance of monetary policy remained appropriate.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Having picked up in the early months of 2012, growth in the world economy has since softened. Current assessments are that global GDP will grow at no more than average pace in 2012. Most commodity prices have declined, which has helped to reduce inflation and provided scope for some countries to ease macroeconomic policies. Australia's terms of trade peaked nearly a year ago, though they remain historically high.\cb1 \
\cb2 China's growth has moderated to a more sustainable pace, but does not appear to be slowing further. Conditions in other parts of Asia have recovered from the effects of last year's natural disasters, though the ongoing trend is unclear and could be dampened by the effects of slower growth outside the region. Growth in the United States continues, but at only a modest pace. The most significant area of weakness continues to be Europe, where economic activity has been contracting and policymakers confront the very difficult task of seeking to put both bank and sovereign balance sheets onto a sound footing, while promoting conditions for improved long-term growth.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have responded positively to signs of progress, but Europe will remain a potential source of adverse shocks for some time. Low appetite for risk has seen long-term interest rates faced by highly rated sovereigns, including Australia, decline to exceptionally low levels. Nonetheless, capital markets remain open to corporations and well-rated banks and Australian banks have had no difficulty accessing funding, including on an unsecured basis. Share markets have remained volatile, though in net terms they have generally risen over the past couple of months.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, most indicators suggest growth close to trend overall. Labour market data show moderate employment growth, even with job shedding in some industries, and the rate of unemployment has thus far remained low.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low, with underlying measures near 2 per cent over the year to June, and headline CPI inflation lower than that. The effects of the price on carbon will start to affect these measures over the next couple of quarters. The Bank's assessment of the outlook for inflation is unchanged: it is expected to be consistent with the target over the next one to two years. Maintaining low inflation over the longer term will, however, require growth in domestic costs to continue their recent moderation as the effects of the earlier exchange rate appreciation wane.\cb1 \
\cb2 As a result of the sequence of earlier decisions, monetary policy is easier than it was for most of 2011, with interest rates for borrowers a little below their medium-term averages. While it is too soon to see the full impact of those changes, dwelling prices have firmed a little over the past couple of months, and business credit has over the past six months recorded its strongest growth for several years. The exchange rate, however, has remained high, despite the observed decline in the terms of trade and the weaker global outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that, with inflation expected to be consistent with the target and growth close to trend, but with a more subdued international outlook than was the case a few months ago, the stance of monetary policy remained appropriate.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the world economy picked up in the early months of 2012, having slowed in the second half of 2011. But more recent indicators continue to suggest weakening in Europe and a slower pace of growth in China. Conditions in other parts of Asia have recovered from the effects of last year's natural disasters, but the ongoing trend is unclear and could be dampened by the effects of slower growth outside the region. The United States continues to grow at a modest pace. Commodity prices have declined, which is helping to reduce inflation and providing scope for some countries to ease macroeconomic policies. Australia's terms of trade have peaked, though they remain historically high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have initially responded positively to signs of further progress towards longer-term sustainability in European financial affairs, but Europe will remain a potential source of adverse shocks for some time. While capital markets remain open to corporations and well-rated banks, low appetite for risk has seen long-term interest rates faced by highly rated sovereigns, including Australia, decline to exceptionally low levels. Share markets have remained volatile.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, recent data suggest that the economy continued to grow in the first part of 2012, at a pace somewhat stronger than had been earlier indicated. Labour market conditions also firmed a little, notwithstanding job shedding in some industries; the rate of unemployment remains low.\cb1 \
\cb2 There have been no changes to the Bank's outlook for inflation. Over the coming one to two years, and abstracting from the effects of the carbon price, inflation is expected to be consistent with the target. Maintaining low inflation over the longer term will, however, require growth in domestic costs to slow as the effects of the earlier exchange rate appreciation wane.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates for borrowers have declined, to be a little below their medium-term averages. Business credit has increased more strongly in recent months, though credit growth remains modest overall. The housing market remains subdued. The exchange rate has been volatile recently, but overall remains high.\cb1 \
\cb2 As a result of the sequence of earlier decisions, there has been a material easing in monetary policy over the past six months. At today's meeting, the Board judged that, with inflation expected to be consistent with the target and growth close to trend, but with a more subdued international outlook than was the case a few months ago, the stance of monetary policy remained appropriate.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25 basis points to 3.50\'a0per\'a0cent, effective 6\'a0June\'a02012.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the world economy picked up in the early months of 2012, having slowed in the second half of 2011. But more recent indicators suggest further weakening in Europe and some further moderation in growth in China. Conditions in other parts of Asia have largely recovered from the effects of last year's natural disasters, but the ongoing trend is unclear and could be dampened by slower Chinese growth. The United States continues to grow at a moderate pace. Commodity prices have declined lately, though they are mostly still high. Australia's terms of trade similarly peaked about six months ago, though they remain historically high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial market sentiment has deteriorated over the past month. The Board has noted previously that Europe would remain a potential source of adverse shocks. Europe's economic and financial prospects have again been clouded by weakening growth, heightened political uncertainty and concerns about fiscal sustainability and the strength of some banks. Capital markets remain open to corporations and well-rated banks, but spreads have increased. Long-term interest rates faced by highly rated sovereigns, including Australia, have fallen to exceptionally low levels. Share markets have declined.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, available indicators suggest modest growth continued in the first part of 2012, with significant variation across sectors. Overall labour market conditions firmed a little, notwithstanding job shedding in some industries, and the rate of unemployment remains low. Nonetheless, both households and businesses continue to exhibit a degree of precautionary behaviour, which may continue in the near term.\cb1 \
\cb2 There have been no new data for inflation since the previous meeting. Over the coming one to two years, and abstracting from the effects of the carbon price, inflation is expected to be in the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range. In the near term, it is likely to be in the lower part of that range, though maintaining low inflation over the longer term will require growth in domestic costs to slow as the effects of the earlier high exchange rate wane.\cb1 \
\cb2 As a result of earlier changes to monetary policy, interest rates for borrowers have declined to be a little below their medium-term averages. Business credit has increased more strongly in recent months, though credit growth remains modest overall. Housing prices had shown some signs of stabilising around the turn of the year, but have recently declined again. Generally, the housing market remains subdued. The exchange rate has declined over recent weeks, reflecting lower commodity prices, heightened risk aversion and expectations of lower interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that, with modest domestic growth and a weaker and more uncertain international environment, the outlook for inflation afforded scope for a more accommodative stance of monetary policy.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 50 basis points to 3.75\'a0per\'a0cent, effective 2\'a0May\'a02012. This decision is based on information received over the past few months that suggests that economic conditions have been somewhat weaker than expected, while inflation has moderated.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the world economy slowed in the second half of 2011, and is likely to continue at a below-trend pace this year. A deep downturn is not occurring at this stage, however, and in fact some forecasters have recently revised upwards their global growth outlook. Growth in China has moderated, as was intended, and is likely to remain at a more measured and sustainable pace in the future. Conditions in other parts of Asia softened in 2011, partly due to natural disasters, but have recently shown some tentative signs of improving. Among the major countries, conditions in Europe remain very difficult, while the United States continues to grow at a moderate pace. Commodity prices have been little changed, at levels below recent peaks but which are nonetheless still quite high. Australia's terms of trade similarly peaked about six months ago, though they too remain high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial market sentiment has generally improved this year, and capital markets are supplying funding to corporations and well-rated banks. At the margin, wholesale funding costs have declined over recent months, though they remain higher, relative to benchmark rates, than in mid 2011. Market sentiment remains skittish, however, and the tasks of putting European banks and sovereigns onto a sound footing for the longer term, and of improving Europe's growth prospects, remain large. Hence Europe will remain a potential source of adverse shocks for some time yet.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, output growth was somewhat below trend over the past year, notwithstanding that growth in domestic demand ran at its fastest pace for four years. Output growth was affected in part by temporary factors, but also by the persistently high exchange rate. Considerable structural change is also occurring in the economy. Labour market conditions softened during 2011, though the rate of unemployment has so far remained little changed at a low level.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent data for inflation show that after a pick up in the first half of last year, underlying inflation has declined again, and was a little over 2 per cent over the latest four quarters. CPI inflation has also declined, from about 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent to a little over 1\'bd per cent at the latest reading, as the weather-driven rises in food prices in the first half of last year have, as expected, now been fully reversed. Over the coming one to two years, and abstracting from the effects of the carbon price, inflation will probably be lower than earlier expected, but still in the 2\'963 per cent range.\cb1 \
\cb2 As a result of changes to monetary policy late last year, interest rates for borrowers have been close to their medium-term averages over recent months, albeit tending to increase a little as lenders passed on the higher costs of funding their books. Credit growth remains modest overall. Housing prices have shown some signs of stabilising recently, after having declined for most of 2011, but generally the housing market remains subdued. The exchange rate remains high even though the terms of trade have declined somewhat.\cb1 \
\cb2 Since it last changed the cash rate in December, the Board has maintained the view that the setting of policy was appropriate for the time being, but that the inflation outlook would provide scope for easier monetary policy, if needed, to support demand. The accretion of evidence over recent months suggests that it is now appropriate for a further step in that direction.\cb1 \
\cb2 In considering the appropriate size of adjustment to the cash rate at today's meeting, the Board judged it desirable that financial conditions now be easier than those which had prevailed in December. A reduction of 50\'a0basis\'a0points in the cash rate was, in this instance, therefore judged to be necessary in order to deliver the appropriate level of borrowing rates.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.25 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information is consistent with the expectation that the world economy will grow at a below-trend pace this year, but does not suggest that a deep downturn is occurring. Several countries in Europe will record very weak outcomes, but the US economy is continuing a moderate expansion. Growth in China has moderated, as was intended, and is likely to remain at a more measured and sustainable pace in the future. Conditions around other parts of Asia softened in 2011, partly due to natural disasters, but are not showing signs of further deterioration. Some moderation in inflation has allowed policymakers in the region to ease monetary policies somewhat. Commodity prices declined for a few months last year and are noticeably off their peaks, but have been relatively stable for a while now, at quite high levels. Australia's terms of trade have peaked, though they remain high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial market sentiment has generally continued to improve in recent weeks and capital markets are supplying funding to corporations and well-rated banks. At the margin, wholesale funding costs are tending to decline, though they remain higher, relative to benchmark rates, than in mid 2011. But the task of putting European banks and sovereigns onto a sound footing for the longer term remains large and Europe will remain a potential source of adverse shocks for some time yet.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, growth in domestic demand ran at its fastest for four years in 2011, driven by private spending. Nonetheless the balance of recent information suggests that output growth was somewhat below trend over the year. There are differences in performance between sectors, and considerable structural change is occurring. Labour market conditions softened during 2011, though the rate of unemployment has been little changed for some time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates for borrowers remain close to their medium-term average. Credit growth remains modest. Housing prices have shown some signs of stabilising recently, after having declined for most of 2011, but generally the housing market remains soft. The exchange rate has remained high over recent months, even though the terms of trade have declined somewhat.\cb1 \
\cb2 In underlying terms, inflation was around 2\'bd per\'a0cent in 2011. CPI inflation was higher than that but will fall over the next quarter or two. It is currently expected that inflation will be in the 2\'963 per cent range over the coming one to two years. This forecast abstracts from the effects of the carbon price and also embodies an assumption that productivity growth in the economy increases somewhat as a result of the structural change now occurring. At its next meeting, the Board will have the opportunity to reassess the outlook for inflation, taking into account not only data on demand and output but also forthcoming information on prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board eased monetary policy late in 2011. Since then, its judgement has been that, with growth expected to be close to trend, inflation close to target and lending rates close to average, the setting of monetary policy was appropriate. The Board's view was also that, were demand conditions to weaken materially, the inflation outlook would provide scope for easier monetary policy. At today's meeting, the Board judged the pace of output growth to be somewhat lower than earlier estimated, but also thought it prudent to see forthcoming key data on prices to reassess its outlook for inflation, before considering a further step to ease monetary policy.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.25 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information is consistent with the expectation that the world economy will grow at a below-trend pace this year, but does not suggest that a deep downturn is occurring. Several European countries will record very weak outcomes, but the US economy is continuing a moderate expansion. Growth in China has moderated as was intended, but on most indicators remains quite robust overall. Conditions around other parts of Asia softened in 2011, partly due to natural disasters, but are not showing signs of further deterioration. Some moderation in inflation has allowed policymakers in the region to ease monetary policies somewhat. Commodity prices declined for some months and are noticeably off their peaks, but over the past couple of months have risen somewhat and remain at quite high levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 The acute financial pressures on banks in Europe have been alleviated considerably by the actions of policymakers, though there is more to do to put European banks and sovereigns onto a sound footing for the longer term and Europe will remain a potential source of shocks for some time yet. Financial market sentiment has continued to improve in recent weeks and capital markets are again supplying funding to corporations and well-rated banks, albeit at costs that are higher, relative to benchmark rates, than in mid 2011.\cb1 \
\cb2 Most information on the Australian economy continues to suggest growth close to trend overall, with differences between sectors and considerable structural change. Labour market conditions softened during 2011 and the unemployment rate increased slightly in mid year, though it has been steady over recent months. CPI inflation has declined as expected and will fall further over the next quarter or two. In underlying terms, inflation is around 2\'bd per cent. Over the coming one to two years, and abstracting from the effects of the carbon price, the Bank expects inflation to be in the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range. This forecast embodies an expectation that productivity growth will improve somewhat as a result of the structural change occurring in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates for borrowers have generally risen slightly since the Board's previous meeting, but remain close to their medium-term average. Credit growth remains modest. Housing prices have shown some sign of stabilising recently, after having declined for most of 2011, but generally the housing market remains soft. The exchange rate has risen over recent months, even though the terms of trade have declined.\cb1 \
\cb2 With growth expected to be close to trend and inflation close to target, the Board judged that the setting of monetary policy remained appropriate for the moment. Should demand conditions weaken materially, the inflation outlook would provide scope for easier monetary policy. The Board will continue to monitor information on economic and financial conditions and adjust the cash rate as necessary to foster sustainable growth and low inflation.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 4.25 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Information becoming available since the December meeting confirms that economic conditions in Europe were weakening late last year, with risks still skewed to the downside. Reflecting this, most forecasters have lowered their forecasts for world GDP growth this year to a below trend pace. That said, recent data from the United States suggest a continuing moderate expansion after a soft patch in mid 2011. Growth in China has moderated as was intended, but on most indicators remained quite robust through the second half of last year. Conditions around other parts of Asia have softened. Commodity prices declined for some months to be noticeably off their peaks, but over the past couple of months have risen somewhat and remain at quite high levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 The acute financial pressures on banks in Europe were alleviated considerably late in 2011 by the actions of policymakers. Much remains to be done to put European sovereigns and banks on a sound footing, but some progress has been made. Financial market sentiment, though remaining skittish, has generally improved since early December. Share markets have risen and term funding markets have re-opened, including for Australian banks, albeit at increased cost compared with the situation prevailing in mid 2011.\cb1 \
\cb2 Information on the Australian economy continues to suggest growth close to trend, with differences between sectors. Labour market conditions softened during 2011 and the unemployment rate increased slightly in mid year, though it has been steady over recent months. CPI inflation has declined as expected, as the large rises in food prices resulting from the floods a year ago have been unwinding. Year-ended CPI inflation will fall further over the next quarter or two. In underlying terms, inflation is around 2\'bd per cent. Over the coming one to two years, and abstracting from the effects of the carbon price, the Bank expects inflation to be in the 2\'963 per cent range.\cb1 \
\cb2 Credit growth remains modest, though there has been a slight increase in demand for credit by businesses. Housing prices showed some sign of stabilising at the end of 2011, after having declined for most of the year. The exchange rate has risen further, even though the terms of trade have started to decline. This is largely a reflection of a decline in the euro against all currencies. Nonetheless, the Australian dollar in trade-weighted terms is somewhat higher than the Bank had previously assumed.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board noted that interest rates for borrowers have declined to be close to their medium-term average, as a result of the actions at the Board's previous two meetings. With growth expected to be close to trend and inflation close to target, the Board judged that the setting of monetary policy was appropriate for the moment. Should demand conditions weaken materially, the inflation outlook would provide scope for easier monetary policy. The Board will continue to monitor information on economic and financial conditions and adjust the cash rate as necessary to foster sustainable growth and low inflation.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information is consistent with global growth running a bit below average this year, with reasonable prospects of a pick-up next year. Commodity prices have declined from their peaks, but generally remain at high levels by historical standards. Inflation in most countries is well contained.\cb1 \
\cb2 Overall, global financial conditions remain very accommodative. Volatility in financial markets has abated recently. Long-term interest rates remain very low and there is ample funding available for creditworthy borrowers.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy has been growing a bit below trend over the past year and the unemployment rate has edged higher. This is likely to persist in the near term, as the economy adjusts to lower levels of mining investment. Further ahead, private demand outside the mining sector is expected to increase at a faster pace, though considerable uncertainty surrounds this outlook. There has been an improvement in indicators of household and business sentiment recently, but it is still too soon to judge how persistent this will be. Public spending is forecast to be quite weak.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent data on prices show inflation consistent with the medium-term target. The Bank's assessment is that this is likely to remain the case over the next one to two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The easing in monetary policy that has already occurred since late 2011 has supported interest-sensitive spending and asset values. The full effects of these decisions are still coming through, and will be for a while yet. The pace of borrowing has remained relatively subdued overall to date, though recently there have been signs of increased demand for finance by households. There is also continuing evidence of a shift in savers' behaviour in response to declining returns on low-risk assets. Housing and equity markets have strengthened further, trends which should in time be supportive of investment.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar, while below its level earlier in the year, is still uncomfortably high. A lower level of the exchange rate is likely to be needed to achieve balanced growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that the setting of monetary policy remained appropriate. The Board will continue to assess the outlook and adjust policy as needed to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information is consistent with global growth running a bit below average this year, with reasonable prospects of a pick-up next year. Commodity prices have declined from their peaks, but generally remain at high levels by historical standards. Inflation in most countries is well contained.\cb1 \
\cb2 Overall, global financial conditions remain very accommodative. Volatility in financial markets has abated recently. Long-term interest rates remain very low and there is ample funding available for creditworthy borrowers.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy has been growing a bit below trend over the past year and the unemployment rate has edged higher. This is likely to persist in the near term, as the economy adjusts to lower levels of mining investment. Further ahead, private demand outside the mining sector is expected to increase at a faster pace, though considerable uncertainty surrounds this outlook. There has been an improvement in indicators of household and business sentiment recently, but it is still unclear how persistent this will be. Public spending is forecast to be quite weak.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent data on prices and wages show inflation consistent with the medium-term target. The Bank's assessment is that this is likely to remain the case over the next one to two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The easing in monetary policy that has already occurred since late 2011 has supported interest-sensitive spending and asset values. The full effects of these decisions are still coming through, and will be for a while yet. The pace of borrowing has remained relatively subdued overall to date, though recently there have been signs of increased demand for finance by households. There is also continuing evidence of a shift in savers' behaviour in response to declining returns on low-risk assets. Housing and equity markets have strengthened further over recent months, trends which should in time be supportive of investment.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar, while below its level earlier in the year, is still uncomfortably high. A lower level of the exchange rate is likely to be needed to achieve balanced growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that the setting of monetary policy remained appropriate. The Board will continue to assess the outlook and adjust policy as needed to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information is consistent with global growth running a bit below average this year, with reasonable prospects of a pick-up next year. Commodity prices have declined from their peaks, but generally remain at high levels by historical standards. Inflation in most countries remains well contained.\cb1 \
\cb2 Overall, global financial conditions remain very accommodative. Changes in the outlook for US monetary policy have increased volatility in financial markets, but long-term interest rates remain very low and there is ample funding available for creditworthy borrowers.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy has been growing a bit below trend over the past year. This is expected to continue in the near term as the economy adjusts to lower levels of mining investment. The unemployment rate has edged higher. There has been an improvement in indicators of household and business sentiment recently, though it is too soon to judge how persistent this will be. Inflation has been consistent with the medium-term target. With growth in labour costs moderating, this is expected to remain the case over the next one to two years, even with the effects of the lower exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 The easing in monetary policy since late 2011 has supported interest-sensitive spending and asset values. The full effects of these decisions are still coming through, and will be for a while yet. The pace of borrowing has remained relatively subdued to date, though recently there have been signs of increased demand for finance by households. There is also continuing evidence of a shift in savers' behaviour in response to declining returns on low-risk assets.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar rose recently, but is still about 10 per cent below its level in April. A lower level of the currency than seen at present would assist in rebalancing growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that the setting of monetary policy remained appropriate. The Board will continue to assess the outlook and adjust policy as needed to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information is consistent with global growth running a bit below average this year, with reasonable prospects of a pick-up next year. Commodity prices have declined from their peaks, but generally remain at high levels by historical standards. Inflation in most countries remains well contained.\cb1 \
\cb2 Overall, global financial conditions remain very accommodative, though the recent reassessment by markets of the outlook for US monetary policy has seen a noticeable rise in sovereign bond yields, from exceptionally low levels. Volatility in financial markets has increased and has affected a number of emerging market economies in particular. Notwithstanding the higher volatility, Australian institutions have ample access to funding markets.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy has been growing a bit below trend over the past year. This is expected to continue in the near term as the economy adjusts to lower levels of mining investment. The unemployment rate has edged higher. Inflation has been consistent with the medium-term target. With growth in labour costs moderating, this is expected to remain the case over the next one to two years, even with the effects of the recent depreciation of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 The easing in monetary policy since late 2011 has supported interest-sensitive spending and asset values, and further effects can be expected over time, including from the declines in rates seen over recent months. The pace of borrowing has remained relatively subdued, though recently there are signs of increased demand for finance by households.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has depreciated by around 15\'a0per\'a0cent since early April, although it remains at a high level. It is possible that the exchange rate will depreciate further over time, which would help to foster a rebalancing of growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that the setting of monetary policy remained appropriate. The Board will continue to assess the outlook and adjust policy as needed to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25 basis points to 2.5\'a0per cent, effective 7\'a0August\'a02013.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information is consistent with global growth running a bit below average this year, with reasonable prospects of a pick-up next year. Commodity prices have declined but, overall, remain at high levels by historical standards. Inflation has moderated over recent months in a number of countries.\cb1 \
\cb2 Globally, financial conditions remain very accommodative, though the recent reassessment by markets of the outlook for US monetary policy has seen a noticeable rise in sovereign bond yields, from exceptionally low levels. Volatility in financial markets has increased and has affected a number of emerging market economies in particular.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy has been growing a bit below trend over the past year. This is expected to continue in the near term as the economy adjusts to lower levels of mining investment. The unemployment rate has edged higher. Recent data confirm that inflation has been consistent with the medium-term target. With growth in labour costs moderating, this is expected to remain the case over the next one to two years, even with the effects of the recent depreciation of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 The easing in monetary policy over the past 18 months has supported interest-sensitive spending and asset values, and further effects can be expected over time. The pace of borrowing has remained relatively subdued, though recently there are signs of increased demand for finance by households.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has depreciated by around 15 per cent since early April, although it remains at a high level. It is possible that the exchange rate will depreciate further over time, which would help to foster a rebalancing of growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board has previously noted that the inflation outlook could provide some scope to ease policy further, should that be required to support demand. At today's meeting, and taking account of recent information on prices and activity, the Board judged that a further decline in the cash rate was appropriate. The Board will continue to assess the outlook and adjust policy as needed to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.75 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information is consistent with global growth running a bit below average this year, with reasonable prospects of a pick-up next year. Commodity prices have declined further but, overall, remain at high levels by historical standards. Inflation has moderated over recent months in a number of countries.\cb1 \
\cb2 Globally, financial conditions remain very accommodative. However, a reassessment by the market of the outlook for monetary policy in the United States has seen a noticeable rise in sovereign bond yields from exceptionally low levels. Volatility in financial markets has increased and there has been some widening of credit spreads.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the recent national accounts confirmed that the economy has been growing a bit below trend over the recent period. This is expected to continue in the near term as the economy adjusts to lower levels of mining investment. The unemployment rate has edged higher over the past year and growth in labour costs has moderated. Inflation has been consistent with the medium-term target and is expected to remain so over the next one to two years, notwithstanding the effects of the recent depreciation of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 The easing in monetary policy over the past 18 months has supported interest-sensitive spending and asset values and further effects can be expected over time. The pace of borrowing has remained relatively subdued, though recently there are signs of increased demand for finance by households.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has depreciated by around 10 per cent since early April, although it remains at a high level. It is possible that the exchange rate will depreciate further over time, which would help to foster a rebalancing of growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting the Board judged that the easier financial conditions now in place will contribute to a strengthening of growth over time, consistent with achieving the inflation target. It decided that the stance of monetary policy remained appropriate for the time being. The Board also judged that the inflation outlook, as currently assessed, may provide some scope for further easing, should that be required to support demand.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.75 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Information becoming available since the previous meeting is consistent with global growth running a bit below average this year, with reasonable prospects of a pick-up next year. Commodity prices have declined from their peaks but, overall, remain at high levels by historical standards. Inflation has generally moderated over recent months and monetary policy has been eased further in a number of countries.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions internationally are very accommodative. Despite the recent rise in sovereign bond yields, funding conditions for sovereigns, well-rated corporates and most financial institutions remain very favourable.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, growth over the past year has been a bit below trend. The outlook published by the Bank last month is for a similar performance in the near term and recent data are consistent with this. The unemployment rate has edged higher over the past year and growth in labour costs has moderated. Inflation has been consistent with the medium-term target and is expected to remain so over the next one to two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The easing in monetary policy over the past 18 months has supported interest-sensitive areas of spending and has been reflected in portfolio shifts by savers and higher asset values. Further effects can be expected over time. The pace of borrowing has thus far remained relatively subdued, though recently there have been some signs of increased demand for finance by households. The exchange rate has depreciated since the previous Board meeting, although, as the Board has noted for some time, it remains high considering the decline in export prices that has taken place over the past year and a half.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting the Board judged that the easier financial conditions now in place will contribute to a strengthening of growth over time, consistent with achieving the inflation target. It decided that the stance of monetary policy remained appropriate for the time being. The Board also judged that the inflation outlook, as currently assessed, may provide some scope for further easing, should that be required to support demand.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25 basis points to 2.75 per cent, effective 8 May 2013.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is likely to record growth a little below trend this year, before picking up next year. Among the major regions, the United States continues on a path of moderate expansion and China's growth is running at a more sustainable, but still robust, pace. Japan has announced significant new policy initiatives aimed at strengthening demand and ending deflation. The euro area remains in recession. Commodity prices have moderated a little in recent months though they remain high by historical standards.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions internationally continue to be very accommodative, with risk spreads reduced, funding conditions for most financial institutions improved and borrowing costs for well-rated corporates and sovereigns exceptionally low.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in Australia was close to trend in 2012 overall, but was a bit below trend in the second half of the year, and this appears to have continued into 2013. Employment has continued to grow but more slowly than the labour force, so that the rate of unemployment has increased a little, though it remains relatively low.\cb1 \
\cb2 With the peak in the level of resources sector investment likely to occur this year, there is scope for other areas of demand to grow more strongly over the next couple of years. There has been a strengthening in consumption and a modest firming in dwelling investment, and prospects are for some increase in business investment outside the resources sector over the next year. Exports of raw materials are increasing as increased capacity comes on stream. These developments, some of which have been assisted by the reductions in interest rates that began 18 months ago, will all be helpful in sustaining growth.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent data on prices confirm that inflation is consistent with the target and, if anything, a little lower than expected. The CPI rose by 2\'bd per cent over the past year, and measures of underlying inflation gave a broadly similar outcome. These results have been pushed up a little by the impact of the carbon price. Growth of labour costs has moderated slightly over recent quarters while productivity growth appears to be improving. This should help to lessen increases in prices for non-tradables. The Bank's forecast remains that inflation over the next one to two years will be consistent with the target.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over recent meetings, the Board has noted that interest rates have already been reduced substantially, with borrowing rates approaching previous lows, and that the effects of this on the economy are continuing to emerge. Savers have been changing their portfolios towards assets with higher expected returns, asset values have risen and some interest-sensitive areas of spending have increased.\cb1 \
\cb2 The exchange rate, on the other hand, has been little changed at a historically high level over the past 18 months, which is unusual given the decline in export prices and interest rates during that time. Moreover, the demand for credit remains, at this point, relatively subdued.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board has previously noted that the inflation outlook would afford scope to ease further, should that be necessary to support demand. At today's meeting the Board decided to use some of that scope. It judged that a further decline in the cash rate was appropriate to encourage sustainable growth in the economy, consistent with achieving the inflation target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global growth is forecast to be a little below average for a time, but the downside risks appear to be reduced. While Europe remains in recession, the United States is experiencing a moderate expansion and growth in China has stabilised at a fairly robust pace. Around Asia generally, growth was dampened by the earlier slowing in China and the weakness in Europe, but again there are signs of stabilisation. Commodity prices have declined somewhat recently, but are still at historically high levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 Internationally, financial conditions are very accommodative. Risk spreads are narrow and funding conditions for financial institutions have improved. Long-term interest rates faced by highly rated sovereigns, including Australia, remain at exceptionally low levels. Borrowing conditions for large corporations are similarly very attractive. Share prices are substantially above their low points. However, the task of putting private and public finances on sustainable paths in several major countries is far from complete. Accordingly, financial markets remain vulnerable to setbacks.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, growth was close to trend over 2012, led by very large increases in capital spending in the resources sector, while some other sectors experienced weaker conditions. Looking ahead, the peak in resource investment is drawing close. There will, therefore, be more scope for some other areas of demand to strengthen.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information suggests that moderate growth in private consumption spending is occurring, though a return to the very strong growth of some years ago is unlikely. While the near-term outlook for investment outside the resources sector is relatively subdued, a modest increase is likely to begin over the next year. Dwelling investment is slowly increasing, with rising dwelling prices and high rental yields. Exports of natural resources are strengthening. Public spending, in contrast, is forecast to be constrained.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is consistent with the medium-term target, with both headline CPI and underlying measures at around 2\'bc per cent on the latest reading. Labour costs remain contained and businesses are focusing on lifting efficiency. These trends should help to keep inflation low, even as the effects on prices of the earlier exchange rate appreciation wane. The Bank's assessment remains that inflation will be consistent with the target over the next one to two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are a number of indications that the substantial easing of monetary policy during late 2011 and 2012 is having an expansionary effect on the economy. Further such effects can be expected to emerge over time. On the other hand, the exchange rate, which has risen recently, remains higher than might have been expected, given the observed decline in export prices. The demand for credit has also remained low thus far, as some households and firms continue to seek lower debt levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board's view is that with inflation likely to be consistent with the target, and with growth likely to be a little below trend over the coming year, an accommodative stance of monetary policy is appropriate. The inflation outlook, as assessed at present, would afford scope to ease policy further, should that be necessary to support demand. At today's meeting, the Board judged that it was prudent to leave the cash rate unchanged. The Board will continue to assess the outlook and adjust policy as needed to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global growth is forecast to be a little below average for a time, but the downside risks appear to have lessened over recent months. The United States is experiencing a moderate expansion and financial strains in Europe are considerably reduced compared with the situation through much of last year. Growth in China has stabilised at a fairly robust pace. Around Asia generally, growth was dampened by the earlier slowing in China and the weakness in Europe, but again there are signs of stabilisation. Commodity prices are little changed recently, at reasonably high levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sentiment in financial markets is much improved compared with the middle of last year. Risk spreads have narrowed and funding conditions for financial institutions are more favourable. Long-term interest rates faced by highly rated sovereigns, including Australia, remain at exceptionally low levels. Borrowing conditions for large corporations are very attractive. Share prices have risen substantially from their low points. However, the task of putting private and public finances on sustainable paths in several major countries is far from complete. Accordingly, as seen most recently in Europe, financial markets remain vulnerable to occasional setbacks.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, most indicators available for this meeting suggest that growth was close to trend over 2012, led by very large increases in capital spending in the resources sector, while some other sectors experienced weaker conditions. Looking ahead, the peak in resource investment is approaching. As it does, there will be more scope for some other areas of demand to strengthen.\cb1 \
\cb2 Present indications are that moderate growth in private consumption spending is occurring, though a return to the very strong growth of some years ago is unlikely. The near-term outlook for non-residential building investment, and investment generally outside the resources sector, is relatively subdued, though recent data suggest some prospect of a modest increase during next financial year. Dwelling investment appears to be slowly increasing, with higher dwelling prices and rental yields. Exports of natural resources have been strengthening, though recent bad weather is affecting some shipments at present. Public spending, in contrast, is forecast to be constrained.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is consistent with the medium-term target, with both headline CPI and underlying measures at around 2\'bc per cent on the latest reading. Looking ahead, with the labour market softening somewhat and unemployment edging higher, conditions are working to contain pressure on labour costs, as was confirmed in the most recent data. Moreover, businesses are focusing on lifting efficiency under conditions of moderate demand growth. These trends should help to keep inflation low, even as the effects on prices of the earlier exchange rate appreciation wane. The Bank's assessment remains that inflation will be consistent with the target over the next one to two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 During 2012, there was a significant easing in monetary policy. Though the full impact of this will still take more time to become apparent, there are signs that the easier conditions are having some of the expected effects. On the other hand, the exchange rate remains higher than might have been expected, given the observed decline in export prices, and the demand for credit is low, as some households and firms continue to seek lower debt levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board's view is that with inflation likely to be consistent with the target, and with growth likely to be a little below trend over the coming year, an accommodative stance of monetary policy is appropriate. The inflation outlook, as assessed at present, would afford scope to ease policy further, should that be necessary to support demand. At today's meeting, taking into account the flow of recent information and noting that there had been a substantial easing of policy as a result of previous decisions, the Board judged that it was prudent to leave the cash rate unchanged. The Board will continue to assess the outlook and adjust policy as needed to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global growth is forecast to be a little below average for a time, but the downside risks appear to have abated, for the moment at least. The United States has so far avoided a severe fiscal contraction and financial strains in Europe have lessened considerably over recent months. Growth in China has stabilised at a fairly robust pace. Around Asia generally, growth was dampened by the earlier slowing in China and the weakness in Europe, but again there are signs recently of stabilisation. Some commodity prices have firmed over recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sentiment in financial markets has continued to improve, with risk spreads narrowing and funding conditions for financial institutions becoming more favourable. Long-term interest rates faced by highly rated sovereigns, including Australia, remain at exceptionally low levels. Borrowing conditions for large corporations are very attractive. Share prices have made further gains. However, the task of putting private and public finances on sustainable paths in several major countries is far from complete and, accordingly, financial markets remain vulnerable to setbacks in these areas.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, most indicators available for this meeting suggest that growth was close to trend in 2012, led by very large increases in capital spending in the resources sector, while some other sectors experienced weaker conditions. Looking ahead, the peak in resource investment is approaching. As it does, there will be more scope for some other areas of demand to strengthen.\cb1 \
\cb2 Present indications are that moderate growth in private consumption spending is occurring, though a return to the very strong growth of some years ago is unlikely. The near-term outlook for non-residential building investment, and investment generally outside the resources sector, remains relatively subdued. Public spending is forecast to be constrained. On the other hand, there are indications of a prospective improvement in dwelling investment, with dwelling prices moving higher, rental yields increasing and building approvals higher than a year ago. Exports of natural resources have been strengthening, though recent bad weather is affecting some shipments.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is consistent with the medium-term target, with both headline CPI and underlying measures at around 2\'bc per cent on the latest reading. Looking ahead, with the labour market softening somewhat and unemployment edging higher, conditions are working to contain pressure on labour costs. Moreover, businesses are likely to be focusing on lifting efficiency under conditions of moderate demand growth. These trends should help to keep inflation low, even as the effects on prices of the earlier exchange rate appreciation wane. The Bank's assessment remains that inflation will be consistent with the target over the next one to two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 During 2012, there was a significant easing in monetary policy. Though the full impact of this will still take further time to become apparent, there are signs that the easier conditions are having some of the expected effects: the demand for some categories of consumer durables has picked up; housing prices have moved higher; there are early indications of a pick-up in dwelling construction; and savers are starting to shift portfolios towards assets offering higher expected returns. On the other hand, the exchange rate remains higher than might have been expected, given the observed decline in export prices, and the demand for credit is low, as some households and firms continue to seek lower debt levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board's view is that with inflation likely to be consistent with the target, and with growth likely to be a little below trend over the coming year, an accommodative stance of monetary policy is appropriate. The inflation outlook, as assessed at present, would afford scope to ease policy further, should that be necessary to support demand. At today's meeting, taking into account the flow of recent information and noting that there had been a substantial easing of policy as a result of previous decisions, the Board judged that it was prudent to leave the cash rate unchanged. The Board will continue to assess the outlook and adjust policy as needed to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy is continuing at a moderate pace. China's growth has generally been in line with policymakers' objectives. While weakening property markets present a challenge in the near term, economic policies have been responding in a way that should support growth. The US economy continues to strengthen, but the euro area and Japan have both seen weakness recently. Some key commodity prices have declined significantly in recent months, reflecting somewhat softer demand and, more importantly, increased supply.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global financial conditions remain very accommodative and long-term interest rates and risk spreads remain very low. Differences in monetary policies across the large jurisdictions are affecting markets, particularly exchange rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, most data are consistent with moderate growth in the economy. Resources sector investment spending is starting to decline significantly, while some other areas of private demand are seeing expansion, at varying rates. Public spending is scheduled to be subdued. Overall, the Bank still expects growth to be a little below trend for the next several quarters.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is running between 2 and 3 per cent, as expected, with recent data confirming subdued rises in labour costs. Although some forward indicators of employment have been firming this year, the unemployment rate has edged higher. The labour market has a degree of spare capacity and it will probably be some time yet before unemployment declines consistently. Hence, growth in wages is expected to remain relatively modest over the period ahead, which should keep inflation consistent with the target even with lower levels of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy remains accommodative. Interest rates are very low and have continued to edge lower over the past year or so as competition to lend has increased. Investors continue to look for higher returns in response to low rates on safe instruments. Credit growth is moderate overall, but with a further pick-up in recent months in lending to investors in housing assets. Dwelling prices have continued to rise.\cb1 \
\cb2 The exchange rate has traded at lower levels recently, in large part reflecting the strengthening US dollar. But the Australian dollar remains above most estimates of its fundamental value, particularly given the significant declines in key commodity prices in recent months. A lower exchange rate is likely to be needed to achieve balanced growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, continued accommodative monetary policy should provide support to demand and help growth to strengthen over time. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the 2\'963 per cent target over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the Board's judgement, monetary policy is appropriately configured to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target. On present indications, the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy is continuing at a moderate pace. China's growth has generally been in line with policymakers' objectives, though weakening property markets there present a challenge in the near term. Commodity prices in historical terms remain high, but some of those important to Australia have declined further in recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Volatility in some financial markets has picked up over the past couple of months. Overall, however, financial conditions remain very accommodative. Long-term interest rates and risk spreads remain very low. Markets still appear to be attaching a low probability to any rise in global interest rates or other adverse event over the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, most data are consistent with moderate growth in the economy. Resources sector investment spending is starting to decline significantly, while some other areas of private demand are seeing expansion, at varying rates. Public spending is scheduled to be subdued. Overall, the Bank still expects growth to be a little below trend for the next several quarters.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent data on prices confirmed that inflation is running between 2 and 3 per cent, as expected, and this is likely to continue. Although some forward indicators of employment have been firming this year, the labour market has a degree of spare capacity and it will probably be some time yet before unemployment declines consistently. Hence, growth in wages is expected to remain relatively modest over the period ahead, which should keep inflation consistent with the target even with lower levels of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy remains accommodative. Interest rates are very low and have continued to edge lower over the past year or so as competition to lend has increased. Investors continue to look for higher returns in response to low rates on safe instruments. Credit growth is moderate overall, but with a further pick-up in recent months in lending to investors in housing assets. Dwelling prices have continued to rise.\cb1 \
\cb2 The exchange rate has traded at lower levels recently, in large part reflecting the strengthening US dollar. But the Australian dollar remains above most estimates of its fundamental value, particularly given the further declines in key commodity prices in recent months. It is offering less assistance than would normally be expected in achieving balanced growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, continued accommodative monetary policy should provide support to demand and help growth to strengthen over time. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the 2\'963 per cent target over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the Board's judgement, monetary policy is appropriately configured to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target. On present indications, the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy is continuing at a moderate pace. China's growth has generally been in line with policymakers' objectives, though some data suggest a slowing in recent months. Weakening property markets there present a challenge in the near term. Commodity prices in historical terms remain high, but some of those important to Australia have declined further in recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Volatility in some financial markets has picked up in recent weeks. Overall, however, financial conditions remain very accommodative. Long-term interest rates and risk spreads remain very low. Markets still appear to be attaching a low probability to any rise in global interest rates or other adverse event over the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, most data are consistent with moderate growth in the economy. Resources sector investment spending is starting to decline significantly, while some other areas of private demand are seeing expansion, at varying rates. Public spending is scheduled to be subdued. Overall, the Bank still expects growth to be a little below trend for the next several quarters.\cb1 \
\cb2 Labour market data have been unusually volatile of late. The Bank's assessment remains that although some forward indicators of employment have been firming this year, the labour market has a degree of spare capacity and it will probably be some time yet before unemployment declines consistently. Growth in wages has declined noticeably and is expected to remain relatively modest over the period ahead, which should keep inflation consistent with the target even with lower levels of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy remains accommodative. Interest rates are very low and have continued to edge lower over recent months as competition to lend has increased. Investors continue to look for higher returns in response to low rates on safe instruments. Credit growth is moderate overall, but with a further pick-up in recent months in lending to investors in housing assets. Dwelling prices have continued to rise over recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 The exchange rate has declined recently, in large part reflecting the strengthening US dollar, but remains high by historical standards, particularly given the further declines in key commodity prices in recent months. It is offering less assistance than would normally be expected in achieving balanced growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, continued accommodative monetary policy should provide support to demand and help growth to strengthen over time. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the 2\'963 per cent target over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the Board's judgement, monetary policy is appropriately configured to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target. On present indications, the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy is continuing at a moderate pace. China's growth remains generally in line with policymakers' objectives, with weakening property markets a challenge in the near term. Commodity prices in historical terms remain high, but some of those important to Australia have declined this year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions overall remain very accommodative. Long-term interest rates and risk spreads remain very low. Volatility in many financial prices is currently unusually low. Markets appear to be attaching a very low probability to any rise in global interest rates or other adverse event over the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the most recent survey data indicate gradually improving business conditions and some recovery in household sentiment after a weaker period around mid year, suggesting moderate growth in the economy is occurring. Resources sector investment spending is starting to decline significantly. Investment intentions in some other sectors continue to improve, though these areas of capital spending are expected to see only moderate growth in the near term. Public spending is scheduled to be subdued. Overall, the Bank still expects growth to be a little below trend over the year ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recorded rate of unemployment has increased recently, despite some improvement in most other indicators for the labour market this year. The Bank's assessment remains that the labour market has a degree of spare capacity and that it will probably be some time yet before unemployment declines consistently. Growth in wages has declined noticeably and is expected to remain relatively modest over the period ahead, which should keep inflation consistent with the target even with lower levels of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy remains accommodative. Interest rates are very low and have continued to edge lower over recent months as competition to lend has increased. Investors continue to look for higher returns in response to low rates on safe instruments. Credit growth has picked up a little, including most recently to businesses. The increase in dwelling prices continues. The exchange rate, on the other hand, remains above most estimates of its fundamental value, particularly given the declines in key commodity prices. It is offering less assistance than would normally be expected in achieving balanced growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, continued accommodative monetary policy should provide support to demand and help growth to strengthen over time. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the 2\'963 per cent target over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the Board's judgement, monetary policy is appropriately configured to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target. On present indications, the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy is continuing at a moderate pace, helped by firmer conditions in the advanced countries. China's growth remains generally in line with policymakers' objectives. Commodity prices in historical terms remain high, but some of those important to Australia have declined this year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions overall remain very accommodative. Long-term interest rates and risk spreads remain very low. Emerging market economies are receiving capital inflows. Volatility in many financial prices is currently unusually low. Markets appear to be attaching a very low probability to any rise in global interest rates, or other adverse event, over the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, growth was firmer around the turn of the year, but this resulted mainly from very strong increases in resource exports as new capacity came on line; smaller increases in such exports are likely in coming quarters. Moderate growth has been occurring in consumer demand. A strong expansion in housing construction is now under way. At the same time, resources sector investment spending is starting to decline significantly. Signs of improvement in investment intentions in some other sectors are emerging, but these plans remain tentative as firms wait for more evidence of improved conditions before committing to significant expansion. Public spending is scheduled to be subdued. Overall, the Bank still expects growth to be a little below trend over the year ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 There has been some improvement in indicators for the labour market this year, but it will probably be some time yet before unemployment declines consistently. Recent data showed an increase in inflation, with both headline and underlying measures affected by the decline in the exchange rate last year. But growth in wages has declined noticeably and is expected to remain relatively modest over the period ahead, which should keep inflation consistent with the target even with lower levels of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy remains accommodative. Interest rates are very low and for some borrowers have continued to edge lower over recent months. Savers continue to look for higher returns in response to low rates on safe instruments. Credit growth has picked up a little, including most recently to businesses. The increase in dwelling prices has been slower this year than last year, though prices continue to rise. The exchange rate remains high by historical standards, particularly given the declines in key commodity prices, and hence is offering less assistance than it might in achieving balanced growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, continued accommodative monetary policy should provide support to demand and help growth to strengthen over time. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the Board's judgement, monetary policy is appropriately configured to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target. On present indications, the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy is continuing at a moderate pace, helped by firmer conditions in the advanced countries. China's growth slowed a little earlier in the year but remains generally in line with policymakers' objectives. Commodity prices in historical terms remain high, but some of those important to Australia have declined.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions overall remain very accommodative. Long-term interest rates and risk spreads remain low. Emerging market economies are once again receiving capital inflows. Volatility in many financial prices is currently unusually low. Markets appear to be attaching a very low probability to any rise in global interest rates over the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, recent data indicate somewhat firmer growth around the turn of the year, but this resulted mainly from very strong increases in resource exports as new capacity came on stream; smaller increases in such exports are likely in coming quarters. Moderate growth has been occurring in consumer demand. A strong expansion in housing construction is now under way. At the same time, resources sector investment spending is starting to decline significantly. Signs of improvement in investment intentions in some other sectors are emerging, but these plans remain tentative as firms wait for more evidence of improved conditions before committing to significant expansion. Public spending is scheduled to be subdued. Overall, the Bank still expects growth to be a little below trend over the year ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 There has been some improvement in indicators for the labour market in recent months, but it will probably be some time yet before unemployment declines consistently. Growth in wages has declined noticeably. If these and other domestic costs remain contained, inflation should remain consistent with the target over the next one to two years, even with lower levels of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy remains accommodative. Interest rates are very low and for some borrowers have edged lower over recent months. Savers continue to look for higher returns in response to low rates on safe instruments. Credit growth has picked up a little, including most recently to businesses. Dwelling prices have increased significantly over the past year, though there have been some signs of a moderation in the pace of increase recently. The exchange rate remains high by historical standards, particularly given the declines in key commodity prices, and hence is offering less assistance than it might in achieving balanced growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, continued accommodative monetary policy should provide support to demand and help growth to strengthen over time. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the 2\'963 per cent target over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the Board's judgement, monetary policy is appropriately configured to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target. On present indications, the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 \
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy is continuing at a moderate pace, helped by firmer conditions in the advanced countries. China's growth appears to have slowed a little in early 2014 but remains generally in line with policymakers' objectives. Commodity prices in historical terms remain high, but some of those important to Australia have continued to decline of late.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions overall remain very accommodative. Long-term interest rates have fallen further and risk spreads remain low. Emerging market economies are once again receiving capital inflows. Volatility in many financial prices is currently unusually low. Markets appear to be attaching a very low probability to any rise in global interest rates over the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy grew at a below-trend pace in 2013 overall, but growth looks to have been somewhat firmer around the turn of the year. This has resulted partly from very strong increases in resource exports as new capacity has come on stream, but smaller increases in such exports are likely in coming quarters. Moderate growth has been occurring in consumer demand and a strong expansion in housing construction is now under way. At the same time, resources sector investment spending is set to decline significantly. Signs of improvement in investment intentions in some other sectors are emerging, but these plans remain tentative, as firms wait for more evidence of improved conditions before committing to significant expansion. Public spending is scheduled to be subdued.\cb1 \
\cb2 There has been some improvement in indicators for the labour market in recent months, but it will probably be some time yet before unemployment declines consistently. Recent data confirm that growth in wages has declined noticeably. If these and other domestic costs remain contained, inflation should remain consistent with the target over the next one to two years, even with lower levels of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy remains accommodative. Interest rates are very low and for some borrowers have edged lower over recent months. Savers continue to look for higher returns in response to low rates on safe instruments. Credit growth has picked up a little. Dwelling prices have increased significantly over the past year, though there have been some signs of a moderation in the pace of increase recently. The earlier decline in the exchange rate is assisting in achieving balanced growth in the economy, but less so than previously as a result of the higher levels over the past few months. The exchange rate remains high by historical standards, particularly given the further decline in commodity prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, continued accommodative monetary policy should provide support to demand, and help growth to strengthen over time. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the 2\'963 per cent target over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the Board's judgement, monetary policy is appropriately configured to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target. On present indications, the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy was a bit below trend in 2013, but there are reasonable prospects of a better outcome this year, helped by firmer conditions in the advanced countries. China's growth appears to have slowed a little in early 2014 but remains generally in line with policymakers' objectives. Commodity prices in historical terms remain high, though some of those important to Australia have softened further of late.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions overall remain very accommodative. Long-term interest rates and most risk spreads remain low. Equity and credit markets are well placed to provide adequate funding.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy grew at a below-trend pace in 2013. Recent information suggests moderate growth is occurring in consumer demand and foreshadows a strong expansion in housing construction. Some indicators of business conditions and confidence have improved from a year ago and exports are rising. But at the same time, resources sector investment spending is set to decline significantly and, at this stage, signs of improvement in investment intentions in other sectors are only tentative, as firms wait for more evidence of improved conditions before committing to expansion plans. Public spending is scheduled to be subdued.\cb1 \
\cb2 The demand for labour has been weak over the past year and, as a result, the rate of unemployment has risen somewhat. More recently, there has been some improvement in indicators for the labour market, but it will probably be some time yet before unemployment declines consistently. Growth in wages has declined noticeably and this has been reflected more clearly in the latest price data, which show a moderation in growth in prices for non-traded goods and services. As a result, inflation is consistent with the target. If domestic costs remain contained, that should continue to be the case over the next one to two years, even with lower levels of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy remains accommodative. Interest rates are very low and savers continue to look for higher returns in response to low rates on safe instruments. Credit growth has picked up a little, while dwelling prices have increased significantly over the past year. The decline in the exchange rate from its highs a year ago will assist in achieving balanced growth in the economy, but less so than previously as a result of the rise over the past few months. The exchange rate remains high by historical standards.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, continued accommodative monetary policy should provide support to demand, and help growth to strengthen over time. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the 2\'963 per cent target over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the Board's judgement, monetary policy is appropriately configured to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target. On present indications, the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5\'a0per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy was a bit below trend in 2013, but there are reasonable prospects of a pick-up this year. The United States economy, while affected by adverse weather, continues its expansion and the euro area has begun a recovery from recession, albeit a fragile one. Japan has recorded a significant pick-up in growth. China's growth remains generally in line with policymakers' objectives, though it may have slowed a little in early 2014. Commodity prices have declined from their peaks but in historical terms remain high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions overall remain very accommodative. Long-term interest rates and most risk spreads remain low. Equity and credit markets are well placed to provide adequate funding, though for some emerging market countries conditions are considerably more challenging than they were a year ago.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy grew at a below trend pace in 2013. Recent information suggests slightly firmer consumer demand over the summer and foreshadows a solid expansion in housing construction. Some indicators of business conditions and confidence have improved from a year ago and exports are rising. But at the same time, resources sector investment spending is set to decline significantly and, at this stage, signs of improvement in investment intentions in other sectors are only tentative, as firms wait for more evidence of improved conditions before committing to expansion plans. Public spending is scheduled to be subdued.\cb1 \
\cb2 The demand for labour has remained weak and, as a result, the rate of unemployment has continued to edge higher. It will probably rise a little further in the near term. Growth in wages has declined noticeably. If domestic costs remain contained, some moderation in the growth of prices for non-traded goods could be expected over time, which should keep inflation consistent with the target, even with lower levels of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy remains accommodative. Interest rates are very low and savers continue to look for higher returns in response to low rates on safe instruments. Credit growth is slowly picking up. Dwelling prices have increased significantly over the past year. The decline in the exchange rate from its highs a year ago will assist in achieving balanced growth in the economy, but less so than previously as a result of the rise over the past few months. The exchange rate remains high by historical standards.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, continued accommodative monetary policy should provide support to demand, and help growth to strengthen over time. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the 2\'963\'a0per cent target over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the Board's judgement, monetary policy is appropriately configured to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target. On present indications, the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy was a bit below trend in 2013, but there are reasonable prospects of a pick-up this year. The United States economy, while affected by adverse weather, continues its expansion and the euro area has begun a recovery from recession, albeit a fragile one. Japan has recorded a significant pick-up in growth, while China's growth remains in line with policymakers' objectives. Commodity prices have declined from their peaks but in historical terms remain high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions overall remain very accommodative. Long-term interest rates and most risk spreads remain low. Equity and credit markets are well placed to provide adequate funding, though for some emerging market countries conditions are considerably more challenging than they were a year ago.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, recent information suggests slightly firmer consumer demand and foreshadows a solid expansion in housing construction. Some indicators of business conditions and confidence have shown improvement and exports are rising. At the same time, resources sector investment spending is set to decline significantly and, at this stage, signs of improvement in investment intentions in other sectors are only tentative. Public spending is scheduled to be subdued.\cb1 \
\cb2 The demand for labour has remained weak and, as a result, the rate of unemployment has continued to edge higher. Growth in wages has declined noticeably. If domestic costs remain contained, some moderation in the growth of prices for non-traded goods could be expected over time, which should keep inflation consistent with the target, even with lower levels of the exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy remains accommodative. Interest rates are very low and savers continue to look for higher returns in response to low rates on safe instruments. Credit growth remains low overall but is picking up gradually for households. Dwelling prices have increased significantly over the past year. The decline in the exchange rate seen to date will assist in achieving balanced growth in the economy, though the exchange rate remains high by historical standards.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, the Bank expects unemployment to rise further before it peaks. Over time, growth is expected to strengthen, helped by continued low interest rates and the lower exchange rate. Inflation is expected to be consistent with the 2\'963 per cent target over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the Board's judgement, monetary policy is appropriately configured to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target. On present indications, the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Since the Board's previous meeting, information on the global economy has been consistent with growth having been a bit below trend in 2013, but with reasonable prospects of a pick-up this year. The United States economy continues its expansion and the euro area has begun a recovery from recession, albeit a fragile one. Japan has recorded a significant pick-up in growth, while China's growth remains in line with policymakers' objectives. Commodity prices have declined from their peaks but in historical terms remain high.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Federal Reserve has begun the process of curtailing stimulus measures but financial conditions overall remain very accommodative. Long-term interest rates and most risk spreads remain low. Equity and credit markets remain able to provide adequate funding, but for some emerging market countries conditions are considerably more challenging than they were a year ago.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, information becoming available over the summer suggests slightly firmer consumer demand and foreshadows a solid expansion in housing construction. Some indicators of business conditions and confidence have shown improvement. At the same time, with resources sector investment spending set to decline significantly, considerable structural change occurring and lingering uncertainty in some areas of the business community, near-term prospects for business investment remain subdued. The demand for labour has remained weak and, as a result, the rate of unemployment has continued to edge higher. Growth in wages has declined noticeably.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in the December quarter was higher than expected. This may be explained in part by faster than anticipated pass-through of the lower exchange rate, though domestic prices also continued to rise at a solid pace, despite slower growth in labour costs. If domestic costs remain contained, some moderation in the growth of prices for non-traded goods could be expected over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy remains accommodative. Interest rates are very low and savers continue to look for higher returns in response to low rates on safe instruments. Credit growth remains low overall but is picking up gradually for households. Dwelling prices have increased further over the past several months. The exchange rate has declined further, which, if sustained, will assist in achieving balanced growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking ahead, the Bank expects growth to remain below trend for a time yet and unemployment to rise further before it peaks. Beyond the short term, growth is expected to strengthen, helped by continued low interest rates and the lower exchange rate. Inflation is expected to be somewhat higher than forecast three months ago, but still consistent with the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the Board's judgement, monetary policy is appropriately configured to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target. On present indications, the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is expanding at a moderate pace, with some softening in conditions in the Asian region, continuing US growth and a recovery in Europe. Key commodity prices are much lower than a year ago, reflecting increased supply, including from Australia, as well as weaker demand. Australia's terms of trade are falling.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Federal Reserve is expected to start increasing its policy rate over the period ahead, but some other major central banks are continuing to ease monetary policy. Volatility in financial markets has abated somewhat for the moment. While credit costs for some emerging market countries remain higher than a year ago, global financial conditions overall remain very accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the available information suggests that moderate expansion in the economy continues in the face of a large decline in capital spending in the mining sector. While GDP growth has been somewhat below longer-term averages for some time, business surveys suggest a gradual improvement in conditions in non-mining sectors over the past year. This has been accompanied by stronger growth in employment and a steady rate of unemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is low and should remain so, with the economy likely to have a degree of spare capacity for some time yet. Inflation is forecast to be consistent with the target over the next one to two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In such circumstances, monetary policy needs to be accommodative. Low interest rates are acting to support borrowing and spending. While the recent changes to some lending rates for housing will reduce this support slightly, overall conditions are still quite accommodative. Credit growth has increased a little over recent months, with credit provided by intermediaries to businesses picking up. Growth in lending to investors in the housing market has eased. Supervisory measures are helping to contain risks that may arise from the housing market.\cb1 \
\cb2 The pace of growth in dwelling prices has moderated in Melbourne and Sydney over recent months and has remained mostly subdued in other cities. In other asset markets, prices for commercial property have been supported by lower long-term interest rates, while equity prices have moved in parallel with developments in global markets. The Australian dollar is adjusting to the significant declines in key commodity prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting the Board again judged that the prospects for an improvement in economic conditions had firmed a little over recent months and that leaving the cash rate unchanged was appropriate. Members also observed that the outlook for inflation may afford scope for further easing of policy, should that be appropriate to lend support to demand. The Board will continue to assess the outlook, and hence whether the current stance of policy will most effectively foster sustainable growth and inflation consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is expanding at a moderate pace, with some further softening in conditions in the Asian region, continuing US growth and a recovery in Europe. Key commodity prices are much lower than a year ago, in part reflecting increased supply, including from Australia. Australia's terms of trade are falling.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Federal Reserve is expected to start increasing its policy rate over the period ahead, but some other major central banks are continuing to ease monetary policy. Volatility in financial markets has abated somewhat for the moment. While credit costs for some emerging market countries remain higher than a year ago, global financial conditions overall remain very accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the available information suggests that moderate expansion in the economy continues. While GDP growth has been somewhat below longer-term averages for some time, business surveys suggest a gradual improvement in conditions over the past year. This has been accompanied by somewhat stronger growth in employment and a steady rate of unemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is low and should remain so, with the economy likely to have a degree of spare capacity for some time yet. Inflation is forecast to be consistent with the target over the next one to two years, but a little lower than earlier expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 In such circumstances, monetary policy needs to be accommodative. Low interest rates are acting to support borrowing and spending. While the recent changes to some lending rates for housing will reduce this support slightly, overall conditions are still quite accommodative. Credit growth has increased a little over recent months, with growth in lending to investors in the housing market easing slightly while that for owner-occupiers appears to be picking up. Dwelling prices continue to rise in Melbourne and Sydney, though the pace of growth has moderated of late. Growth in dwelling prices has remained mostly subdued in other cities. Supervisory measures are helping to contain risks that may arise from the housing market.\cb1 \
\cb2 In other asset markets, prices for commercial property have been supported by lower long-term interest rates, while equity prices have moved in parallel with developments in global markets. The Australian dollar is adjusting to the significant declines in key commodity prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting the Board judged that the prospects for an improvement in economic conditions had firmed a little over recent months and that leaving the cash rate unchanged was appropriate at this meeting. Members also observed that the outlook for inflation may afford scope for further easing of policy, should that be appropriate to lend support to demand. The Board will continue to assess the outlook, and hence whether the current stance of policy will most effectively foster sustainable growth and inflation consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is expanding at a moderate pace, with some further softening in conditions in China and east Asia of late, but stronger US growth. Key commodity prices are much lower than a year ago, in part reflecting increased supply, including from Australia. Australia's terms of trade are falling.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Federal Reserve is expected to start increasing its policy rate over the period ahead, but some other major central banks are continuing to ease policy. Equity market volatility has continued, but the functioning of financial markets generally has not, to date, been impaired. Long-term borrowing rates for most sovereigns and creditworthy private borrowers remain remarkably low. Overall, global financial conditions remain very accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the available information suggests that moderate expansion in the economy continues. While growth has been somewhat below longer-term averages for some time, it has been accompanied with somewhat stronger growth of employment and a steady rate of unemployment over the past year. Overall, the economy is likely to be operating with a degree of spare capacity for some time yet, with domestic inflationary pressures contained. Inflation is thus forecast to remain consistent with the target over the next one to two years, even with a lower exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 In such circumstances, monetary policy needs to be accommodative. Low interest rates are acting to support borrowing and spending. Credit is recording moderate growth overall, with growth in lending to the housing market broadly steady over recent months. Dwelling prices continue to rise strongly in Sydney and Melbourne, though trends have been more varied in a number of other cities. Regulatory measures are helping to contain risks that may arise from the housing market. In other asset markets, prices for commercial property have been supported by lower long-term interest rates, while equity prices have moved lower and been more volatile recently, in parallel with developments in global markets. The Australian dollar is adjusting to the significant declines in key commodity prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board today judged that leaving the cash rate unchanged was appropriate at this meeting. Further information on economic and financial conditions to be received over the period ahead will inform the Board's ongoing assessment of the outlook and hence whether the current stance of policy will most effectively foster sustainable growth and inflation consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is expanding at a moderate pace, with some further softening in conditions in China and east Asia of late, but stronger US growth. Key commodity prices are much lower than a year ago, in part reflecting increased supply, including from Australia. Australia's terms of trade are falling.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Federal Reserve is expected to start increasing its policy rate over the period ahead, but some other major central banks are continuing to ease policy. Equity markets have been considerably more volatile of late, associated with developments in China, though other financial markets have been relatively stable. Long-term borrowing rates for most sovereigns and creditworthy private borrowers remain remarkably low. Overall, global financial conditions remain very accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, most of the available information suggests that moderate expansion in the economy continues. While growth has been somewhat below longer-term averages for some time, it has been accompanied with somewhat stronger growth of employment and a steady rate of unemployment over the past year. Overall, the economy is likely to be operating with a degree of spare capacity for some time yet, with domestic inflationary pressures contained. Inflation is thus forecast to remain consistent with the target over the next one to two years, even with a lower exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 In such circumstances, monetary policy needs to be accommodative. Low interest rates are acting to support borrowing and spending. Credit is recording moderate growth overall, with growth in lending to the housing market broadly steady over recent months. Dwelling prices continue to rise strongly in Sydney, though trends have been more varied in a number of other cities. The Bank is working with other regulators to assess and contain risks that may arise from the housing market. In other asset markets, prices for commercial property have been supported by lower long-term interest rates, while equity prices have moved lower and been more volatile recently, in parallel with developments in global markets. The Australian dollar is adjusting to the significant declines in key commodity prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board today judged that leaving the cash rate unchanged was appropriate at this meeting. Further information on economic and financial conditions to be received over the period ahead will inform the Board's ongoing assessment of the outlook and hence whether the current stance of policy will most effectively foster sustainable growth and inflation consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is expanding at a moderate pace, but some key commodity prices are much lower than a year ago. Much of this trend appears to reflect increased supply, including from Australia. Australia's terms of trade are falling nonetheless.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Federal Reserve is expected to start increasing its policy rate later this year, but some other major central banks are continuing to ease policy. Hence, global financial conditions remain very accommodative. Despite fluctuations in markets associated with the respective developments in China and Greece, long-term borrowing rates for most sovereigns and creditworthy private borrowers remain remarkably low.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the available information suggests that the economy has continued to grow. While the rate of growth has been somewhat below longer-term averages, it has been associated with somewhat stronger growth of employment and a steady rate of unemployment over the past year. Overall, the economy is likely to be operating with a degree of spare capacity for some time yet. Recent information confirms that domestic inflationary pressures have been contained. That should remain the case for some time, given the very slow growth in labour costs. Inflation is thus forecast to remain consistent with the target over the next one to two years, even with a lower exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 In such circumstances, monetary policy needs to be accommodative. Low interest rates are acting to support borrowing and spending. Credit is recording moderate growth overall, with growth in lending to the housing market broadly steady over recent months. Dwelling prices continue to rise strongly in Sydney, though trends have been more varied in a number of other cities. The Bank is working with other regulators to assess and contain risks that may arise from the housing market. In other asset markets, prices for equities and commercial property have been supported by lower long-term interest rates. The Australian dollar is adjusting to the significant declines in key commodity prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board today judged that leaving the cash rate unchanged was appropriate at this meeting. Further information on economic and financial conditions to be received over the period ahead will inform the Board's ongoing assessment of the outlook and hence whether the current stance of policy will most effectively foster sustainable growth and inflation consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is expanding at a moderate pace, but some key commodity prices are much lower than a year ago. This trend appears largely to reflect increased supply, including from Australia. Australia's terms of trade are falling nonetheless.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Federal Reserve is expected to start increasing its policy rate later this year, but some other major central banks are continuing to ease policy. Hence, global financial conditions remain very accommodative. Despite fluctuations in markets associated with the respective developments in China and Greece, long-term borrowing rates for most sovereigns and creditworthy private borrowers remain remarkably low.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the available information suggests that the economy has continued to grow over the past year, but at a rate somewhat below its longer-term average. The rate of unemployment, though elevated, has been little changed recently. Overall, the economy is likely to be operating with a degree of spare capacity for some time yet. With very slow growth in labour costs, inflation is forecast to remain consistent with the target over the next one to two years, even with a lower exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 In such circumstances, monetary policy needs to be accommodative. Low interest rates are acting to support borrowing and spending. Credit is recording moderate growth overall, with stronger borrowing by businesses and growth in lending to the housing market broadly steady over recent months. Dwelling prices continue to rise strongly in Sydney, though trends have been more varied in a number of other cities. The Bank is working with other regulators to assess and contain risks that may arise from the housing market. In other asset markets, prices for equities and commercial property have been supported by lower long-term interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has declined noticeably against a rising US dollar over the past year, though less so against a basket of currencies. Further depreciation seems both likely and necessary, particularly given the significant declines in key commodity prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board today judged that leaving the cash rate unchanged was appropriate at this meeting. Information on economic and financial conditions to be received over the period ahead will inform the Board's assessment of the outlook and hence whether the current stance of policy will most effectively foster sustainable growth and inflation consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is expanding at a moderate pace, but some key commodity prices are much lower than a year ago. This trend appears largely to reflect increased supply, including from Australia. Australia's terms of trade are falling nonetheless.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Federal Reserve is expected to start increasing its policy rate later this year, but some other major central banks are continuing to ease policy. Hence, global financial conditions remain very accommodative. Despite some increases in bond yields recently, long-term borrowing rates for sovereigns and creditworthy private borrowers remain remarkably low.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the available information suggests the economy has continued to grow, but at a rate somewhat below its longer-term average. Household spending has improved, including a large rise in dwelling construction, and exports are rising. But a key drag on private demand is weakness in business capital expenditure in both the mining and non-mining sectors and this is likely to persist over the coming year. Public spending is also scheduled to be subdued. Overall, the economy is likely to be operating with a degree of spare capacity for some time yet. With very slow growth in labour costs, inflation is forecast to remain consistent with the target over the next one to two years, even with a lower exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 In such circumstances, monetary policy needs to be accommodative. Low interest rates are acting to support borrowing and spending. Credit is recording moderate growth overall, with stronger lending to businesses and growth in lending to the housing market broadly steady over recent months. Dwelling prices continue to rise strongly in Sydney, though trends have been more varied in a number of other cities. The Bank is working with other regulators to assess and contain risks that may arise from the housing market. In other asset markets, prices for equities and commercial property have been supported by lower long-term interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has declined noticeably against a rising US dollar over the past year, though less so against a basket of currencies. Further depreciation seems both likely and necessary, particularly given the significant declines in key commodity prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 Having eased monetary policy last month, the Board today judged that leaving the cash rate unchanged was appropriate at this meeting. Information on economic and financial conditions to be received over the period ahead will inform the Board's assessment of the outlook and hence whether the current stance of policy will most effectively foster sustainable growth and inflation consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25 basis points to 2.0 per cent, effective 6 May 2015.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is expanding at a moderate pace, but commodity prices have declined over the past year, in some cases sharply. These trends appear largely to reflect increased supply, including from Australia. Australia's terms of trade are falling nonetheless.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Federal Reserve is expected to start increasing its policy rate later this year, but some other major central banks are stepping up the pace of unconventional policy measures. Hence, financial conditions remain very accommodative globally, with long-term borrowing rates for sovereigns and creditworthy private borrowers remarkably low.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the available information suggests improved trends in household demand over the past six months and stronger growth in employment. Looking ahead, the key drag on private demand is likely to be weakness in business capital expenditure in both the mining and non-mining sectors over the coming year. Public spending is also scheduled to be subdued. The economy is therefore likely to be operating with a degree of spare capacity for some time yet. Inflation is forecast to remain consistent with the target over the next one to two years, even with a lower exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Low interest rates are acting to support borrowing and spending, and credit is recording moderate growth overall, with stronger lending to businesses of late. Growth in lending to the housing market has been steady over recent months. Dwelling prices continue to rise strongly in Sydney, though trends have been more varied in a number of other cities. The Bank is working with other regulators to assess and contain risks that may arise from the housing market. In other asset markets, prices for equities and commercial property have been supported by lower long-term interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has declined noticeably against a rising US dollar over the past year, though less so against a basket of currencies. Further depreciation seems both likely and necessary, particularly given the significant declines in key commodity prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that the inflation outlook provided the opportunity for monetary policy to be eased further, so as to reinforce recent encouraging trends in household demand.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.25 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Moderate growth in the global economy is expected in 2015, with the US economy continuing to strengthen, even as China's growth slows a little from last year's outcome.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices have declined over the past year, in some cases sharply. The price of oil in particular is much lower than it was a year ago. These trends appear to reflect a combination of lower growth in demand and, more importantly, significant increases in supply. The much lower levels of energy prices will act to strengthen global output and temporarily to lower CPI inflation rates. Prices for key Australian exports have also been falling and therefore Australia's terms of trade are continuing to decline.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions are very accommodative globally, with long-term borrowing rates for several major sovereigns at all-time lows. Financing costs for creditworthy borrowers remain remarkably low.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia the available information suggests that growth is continuing at a below-trend pace, with overall domestic demand growth quite weak as business capital expenditure falls. As a result, the unemployment rate has gradually moved higher over the past year. The economy is likely to be operating with a degree of spare capacity for some time yet. With growth in labour costs subdued, it appears likely that inflation will remain consistent with the target over the next one to two years, even with a lower exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Credit is recording moderate growth overall. Growth in lending to investors in housing assets is stronger than to owner-occupiers, though neither appears to be picking up further at present. Lending to businesses, on the other hand, has been strengthening recently. Dwelling prices continue to rise strongly in Sydney, though trends have been more varied in a number of other cities. The Bank is working with other regulators to assess and contain risks that may arise from the housing market. In other asset markets, prices for equities and commercial property have risen, in part as a result of declining long-term interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has declined noticeably against a rising US dollar over the past year, though less so against a basket of currencies. Further depreciation seems likely, particularly given the significant declines in key commodity prices. A lower exchange rate is likely to be needed to achieve balanced growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting the Board judged that it was appropriate to hold interest rates steady for the time being. Further easing of policy may be appropriate over the period ahead, in order to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation consistent with the target. The Board will continue to assess the case for such action at forthcoming meetings.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.25 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy continued at a moderate pace in 2014. A similar performance is expected by most observers in 2015, with the US economy continuing to strengthen, even as China's growth slows a little from last year's outcome.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices have declined over the past year, in some cases sharply. The price of oil in particular has fallen significantly. These trends appear to reflect a combination of lower growth in demand and, more importantly, significant increases in supply. The much lower levels of energy prices will act to strengthen global output and temporarily to lower CPI inflation rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions are very accommodative globally, with long-term borrowing rates for several major sovereigns at all-time lows over recent months. Some risk spreads have widened a little but overall financing costs for creditworthy borrowers remain remarkably low.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia the available information suggests that growth is continuing at a below-trend pace, with domestic demand growth overall quite weak. As a result, the unemployment rate has gradually moved higher over the past year. The economy is likely to be operating with a degree of spare capacity for some time yet. With growth in labour costs subdued, it appears likely that inflation will remain consistent with the target over the next one to two years, even with a lower exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Credit is recording moderate growth overall, with stronger growth in lending to investors in housing assets. Dwelling prices continue to rise strongly in Sydney, though trends have been more varied in a number of other cities over recent months. The Bank is working with other regulators to assess and contain risks that may arise from the housing market. In other asset markets, prices for equities and commercial property have risen, in part as a result of declining long-term interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has declined noticeably against a rising US dollar, though less so against a basket of currencies. It remains above most estimates of its fundamental value, particularly given the significant declines in key commodity prices. A lower exchange rate is likely to be needed to achieve balanced growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting the Board judged that, having eased monetary policy at the previous meeting, it was appropriate to hold interest rates steady for the time being. Further easing of policy may be appropriate over the period ahead, in order to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation consistent with the target. The Board will further assess the case for such action at forthcoming meetings.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25 basis points to 2.25 per cent, effective 4 February 2015.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the global economy continued at a moderate pace in 2014. China's growth was in line with policymakers' objectives. The US economy continued to strengthen, but the euro area and Japanese economies were both weaker than expected. Forecasts for global growth in 2015 envisage continued moderate growth.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices have continued to decline, in some cases sharply. The price of oil in particular has fallen significantly over the past few months. These trends appear to reflect a combination of lower growth in demand and, more importantly, significant increases in supply. The much lower levels of energy prices will act to strengthen global output and temporarily to lower CPI inflation rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions are very accommodative globally, with long-term borrowing rates for several major sovereigns reaching new all-time lows over recent months. Some risk spreads have widened a little but overall financing costs for creditworthy borrowers remain remarkably low.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia the available information suggests that growth is continuing at a below-trend pace, with domestic demand growth overall quite weak. As a result, the unemployment rate has gradually moved higher over the past year. The fall in energy prices can be expected to offer significant support to consumer spending, but at the same time the decline in the terms of trade is reducing income growth. Overall, the Bank's assessment is that output growth will probably remain a little below trend for somewhat longer, and the rate of unemployment peak a little higher, than earlier expected. The economy is likely to be operating with a degree of spare capacity for some time yet.\cb1 \
\cb2 The CPI recorded the lowest increase for several years in 2014. This was affected by the sharp decline in oil prices at the end of the year and the removal of the price on carbon. Measures of underlying inflation also declined a little, to around 2\'bc per cent over the year. With growth in labour costs subdued, it appears likely that inflation will remain consistent with the target over the next one to two years, even with a lower exchange rate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Credit growth picked up to moderate rates in 2014, with stronger growth in lending to investors in housing assets. Dwelling prices have continued to rise strongly in Sydney, though trends have been more varied in a number of other cities over recent months. The Bank is working with other regulators to assess and contain economic risks that may arise from the housing market.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has declined noticeably against a rising US dollar over recent months, though less so against a basket of currencies. It remains above most estimates of its fundamental value, particularly given the significant declines in key commodity prices. A lower exchange rate is likely to be needed to achieve balanced growth in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 For the past year and a half, the cash rate has been stable, as the Board has taken time to assess the effects of the substantial easing in policy that had already been put in place and monitored developments in Australia and abroad. At today's meeting, taking into account the flow of recent information and updated forecasts, the Board judged that, on balance, a further reduction in the cash rate was appropriate. This action is expected to add some further support to demand, so as to foster sustainable growth and inflation outcomes consistent with the target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing to grow, at a lower than average pace. Labour market conditions in the advanced economies have improved over the past year. Economic conditions in China have steadied, supported by growth in infrastructure and property construction, although medium-term risks to growth remain. Inflation remains below most central banks' targets, although headline inflation rates have increased recently. Globally, the outlook for inflation is more balanced than it has been for some time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices have risen over the course of this year, reflecting both stronger demand and cut-backs in supply in some countries. The higher commodity prices have supported a rise in Australia's terms of trade, although they remain much lower than they have been in recent years. The higher prices are providing a boost to national income.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets are functioning effectively. Government bond yields have risen further with the adjustment having been orderly. Funding costs for some borrowers have also risen, but remain low. Globally, monetary policy remains remarkably accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy is continuing its transition following the mining investment boom. Some slowing in the year-ended growth rate is likely, before it picks up again. Further increases in exports of resources are expected as completed projects come on line. The outlook for business investment remains subdued, although measures of business sentiment remain above average.\cb1 \
\cb2 Labour market indicators continue to be somewhat mixed. The unemployment rate has declined this year, although some measures of labour underutilisation are little changed. There continues to be considerable variation in employment outcomes across the country. Part-time employment has been growing strongly, but employment growth overall has slowed. The forward-looking indicators point to continued expansion in employment in the near term.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains quite low. The continuing subdued growth in labour costs means that inflation is expected to remain low for some time, before returning to more normal levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 Low interest rates have been supporting domestic demand and the lower exchange rate since 2013 has been helping the traded sector. Financial institutions are in a position to lend for worthwhile purposes. These factors are assisting the economy to make the necessary adjustments, though an appreciating exchange rate could complicate this.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the housing market have strengthened overall, although they vary considerably around the country. In some markets, prices are rising briskly, while in others they are declining. Housing credit has picked up a little, although turnover of established dwellings is lower than it was a year ago. Supervisory measures have strengthened lending standards and some lenders are taking a more cautious attitude to lending in certain segments. Considerable supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years, particularly in the eastern capital cities. Growth in rents is the slowest for some decades.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking account of the available information, and having eased monetary policy earlier in the year, the Board judged that holding the stance of policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing to grow, at a lower than average pace. Labour market conditions in the advanced economies have improved over the past year, but growth in global industrial production and trade remains subdued. Economic conditions in China have steadied recently, supported by growth in infrastructure and property construction, although medium-term risks to growth remain. Inflation remains below most central banks' targets.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices have risen over recent months, following the very substantial declines over the past few years. The higher commodity prices have supported a rise in Australia's terms of trade, although they remain much lower than they have been in recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets are functioning effectively. Funding costs for high-quality borrowers remain low and, globally, monetary policy remains remarkably accommodative. Government bond yields have risen, but are still low by historical standards.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy is growing at a moderate rate. The large decline in mining investment is being offset by growth in other areas, including residential construction, public demand and exports. Household consumption has been growing at a reasonable pace, but appears to have slowed a little recently. Measures of household and business sentiment remain above average.\cb1 \
\cb2 Labour market indicators continue to be somewhat mixed. The unemployment rate has declined this year, although there is considerable variation in employment growth across the country. Part-time employment has been growing strongly, but employment growth overall has slowed. The forward-looking indicators point to continued expansion in employment in the near term.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains quite low. The September quarter inflation data were broadly as expected, with underlying inflation continuing to run at around 1\'bd per cent. Subdued growth in labour costs and very low cost pressures elsewhere in the world mean that inflation is expected to remain low for some time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Low interest rates have been supporting domestic demand and the lower exchange rate since 2013 has been helping the traded sector. Financial institutions are in a position to lend for worthwhile purposes. These factors are assisting the economy to make the necessary adjustments, though an appreciating exchange rate could complicate this.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's forecasts for output growth and inflation are little changed from those of three months ago. Over the next year, the economy is forecast to grow at close to its potential rate, before gradually strengthening. Inflation is expected to pick up gradually over the next two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the housing market, supervisory measures have strengthened lending standards and some lenders are taking a more cautious attitude to lending in certain segments. Turnover in the housing market and growth in lending for housing have slowed over the past year. The rate of increase in housing prices is also lower than it was a year ago, although prices in some markets have been rising briskly over the past few months. Considerable supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years, particularly in the eastern capital cities. Growth in rents is the slowest for some decades.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking account of the available information, and having eased monetary policy at its May and August meetings, the Board judged that holding the stance of policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing to grow, at a lower than average pace. Labour market conditions in the advanced economies have improved over the past year, but growth in global industrial production and trade remains subdued. Actions by Chinese policymakers have been supporting growth, but the underlying pace of growth in China has been moderating. Inflation remains below most central banks' targets.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices have risen over recent months, following the very substantial declines over the past few years. The higher commodity prices have supported a rise in Australia's terms of trade, although they remain much lower than they have been in recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have continued to function effectively. Funding costs for high-quality borrowers remain low and, globally, monetary policy remains remarkably accommodative. Government bond yields are near their historical lows.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy is continuing to grow at a moderate rate. The large decline in mining investment is being offset by growth in other areas, including residential construction, public demand and exports. Household consumption has been growing at a reasonable pace, but appears to have slowed a little recently. Measures of household and business sentiment remain above average.\cb1 \
\cb2 Labour market indicators have been somewhat mixed. The unemployment rate has fallen further, although there is considerable variation in employment growth across the country. Part-time employment has been growing strongly, while growth in full-time employment has been subdued. The forward-looking indicators point to continued expansion in employment in the near term.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains quite low. Given very subdued growth in labour costs and very low cost pressures elsewhere in the world, this is expected to remain the case for some time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Low interest rates have been supporting domestic demand and the lower exchange rate since 2013 has been helping the traded sector. Financial institutions are in a position to lend for worthwhile purposes. These factors are all assisting the economy to make the necessary economic adjustments, though an appreciating exchange rate could complicate this.\cb1 \
\cb2 Supervisory measures have strengthened lending standards in the housing market. Separately, a number of lenders are also taking a more cautious attitude to lending in certain segments. Growth in lending for housing has slowed over the past year. Turnover in the housing market has declined. The rate of increase in housing prices is lower than it was a year ago, although some markets have strengthened recently. Considerable supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years, particularly in the eastern capital cities. Growth in rents is the slowest for some decades.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking account of the available information, and having eased monetary policy at its May and August meetings, the Board judged that holding the stance of policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing to grow, at a lower than average pace. Several advanced economies have recorded improved conditions over the past year, but conditions have become more difficult for a number of emerging market economies. Actions by Chinese policymakers have been supporting growth, but the underlying pace of China's growth appears to be moderating.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices are above recent lows, but this follows very substantial declines over the past couple of years. Australia's terms of trade remain much lower than they had been in recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have continued to function effectively. Funding costs for high-quality borrowers remain low and, globally, monetary policy remains remarkably accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, recent data suggest that overall growth is continuing, despite a very large decline in business investment, helped by growth in other areas of domestic demand and exports. Labour market indicators continue to be somewhat mixed, but suggest continued expansion in employment in the near term.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains quite low. Given very subdued growth in labour costs and very low cost pressures elsewhere in the world, this is expected to remain the case for some time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Low interest rates have been supporting domestic demand and the lower exchange rate since 2013 is helping the traded sector. Financial institutions are in a position to lend for worthwhile purposes. These factors are all assisting the economy to make the necessary economic adjustments, though an appreciating exchange rate could complicate this.\cb1 \
\cb2 Supervisory measures have strengthened lending standards in the housing market. Separately, a number of lenders are also taking a more cautious attitude to lending in certain segments. The best available information suggests that dwelling prices overall have risen moderately over the past year and growth in lending for housing purposes has slowed. Considerable supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years, particularly in the eastern capital cities.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking account of the available information, and having eased monetary policy at its May and August meetings, the Board judged that holding the stance of policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25 basis points to 1.50 per cent, effective 3 August 2016.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing to grow, at a lower than average pace. Several advanced economies have recorded improved conditions over the past year, but conditions have become more difficult for a number of emerging market economies. Actions by Chinese policymakers are supporting the near-term growth outlook, but the underlying pace of China's growth appears to be moderating.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices are above recent lows, but this follows very substantial declines over the past couple of years. Australia's terms of trade remain much lower than they had been in recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have continued to function effectively. Funding costs for high-quality borrowers remain low and, globally, monetary policy remains remarkably accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, recent data suggest that overall growth is continuing at a moderate pace, despite a very large decline in business investment. Other areas of domestic demand, as well as exports, have been expanding at a pace at or above trend. Labour market indicators continue to be somewhat mixed, but are consistent with a modest pace of expansion in employment in the near term.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent data confirm that inflation remains quite low. Given very subdued growth in labour costs and very low cost pressures elsewhere in the world, this is expected to remain the case for some time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Low interest rates have been supporting domestic demand and the lower exchange rate since 2013 is helping the traded sector. Financial institutions are in a position to lend for worthwhile purposes. These factors are all assisting the economy to make the necessary economic adjustments, though an appreciating exchange rate could complicate this.\cb1 \
\cb2 Supervisory measures have strengthened lending standards in the housing market. Separately, a number of lenders are also taking a more cautious attitude to lending in certain segments. The most recent information suggests that dwelling prices have been rising only moderately over the course of this year, with considerable supply of apartments scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years, particularly in the eastern capital cities. Growth in lending for housing purposes has slowed a little this year. All this suggests that the likelihood of lower interest rates exacerbating risks in the housing market has diminished.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking all these considerations into account, the Board judged that prospects for sustainable growth in the economy, with inflation returning to target over time, would be improved by easing monetary policy at this meeting.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.75 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing to grow, at a lower than average pace. Several advanced economies have recorded improved conditions over the past year, but conditions have become more difficult for a number of emerging market economies. China's growth rate has moderated further, though recent actions by Chinese policymakers are supporting the near-term outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices are above recent lows, but this follows very substantial declines over the past couple of years. Australia's terms of trade remain much lower than they had been in recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have been volatile recently as investors have re-priced assets after the UK referendum. But most markets have continued to function effectively. Funding costs for high-quality borrowers remain low and, globally, monetary policy remains remarkably accommodative. Any effects of the referendum outcome on global economic activity remain to be seen and, outside the effects on the UK economy itself, may be hard to discern.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, recent data suggest overall growth is continuing, despite a very large decline in business investment. Other areas of domestic demand, as well as exports, have been expanding at a pace at or above trend. Labour market indicators have been more mixed of late, but are consistent with a modest pace of expansion in employment in the near term.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has been quite low. Given very subdued growth in labour costs and very low cost pressures elsewhere in the world, this is expected to remain the case for some time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Low interest rates have been supporting domestic demand and the lower exchange rate since 2013 is helping the traded sector. Financial institutions are in a position to lend and credit growth has been moderate. These factors are all assisting the economy to make the necessary economic adjustments, though an appreciating exchange rate could complicate this.\cb1 \
\cb2 Indications are that the effects of supervisory measures have strengthened lending standards in the housing market. Separately, a number of lenders are also taking a more cautious attitude to lending in certain segments. Dwelling prices have risen again in many parts of the country over recent months. But considerable supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years, particularly in the eastern capital cities.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding monetary policy steady would be prudent at this meeting. Over the period ahead, further information should allow the Board to refine its assessment of the outlook for growth and inflation and to make any adjustment to the stance of policy that may be appropriate.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.75\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing to grow, at a lower than average pace. Several advanced economies have recorded improved conditions over the past year, but conditions have become more difficult for a number of emerging market economies. China's growth rate moderated further in the first part of the year, though recent actions by Chinese policymakers are supporting the near-term outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices are above recent lows, but this follows very substantial declines over the past couple of years. Australia's terms of trade remain much lower than they had been in recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In financial markets, conditions have generally been calmer for the past several months following the period of volatility early in the year. Attention is now turning to some particular event risks. Funding costs for high-quality borrowers remain very low and, globally, monetary policy remains remarkably accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, recent data suggest overall growth is continuing, despite a very large decline in business investment. Other areas of domestic demand, as well as exports, have been expanding at a pace at or above trend. Labour market indicators have been more mixed of late, but are consistent with continued expansion of employment in the near term.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has been quite low. Given very subdued growth in labour costs and very low cost pressures elsewhere in the world, this is expected to remain the case for some time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Low interest rates have been supporting domestic demand and the lower exchange rate overall is helping the traded sector. Over the past year, growth in credit to businesses has picked up, even as that to households has moderated a little. These factors are all assisting the economy to make the necessary economic adjustments, though an appreciating exchange rate could complicate this.\cb1 \
\cb2 Indications are that the effects of supervisory measures have strengthened lending standards in the housing market. Separately, a number of lenders are also taking a more cautious attitude to lending in certain segments. Dwelling prices have begun to rise again recently. But considerable supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years, particularly in the eastern capital cities.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking account of the available information, and having eased monetary policy at its May meeting, the Board judged that holding the stance of policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and inflation returning to target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25\'a0basis points to 1.75\'a0per\'a0cent, effective 4 May 2016. This follows information showing inflationary pressures are lower than expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing to grow, though at a slightly lower pace than earlier expected, with forecasts having been revised down a little further recently. While several advanced economies have recorded improved conditions over the past year, conditions have become more difficult for a number of emerging market economies. China's growth rate moderated further in the first part of the year, though recent actions by Chinese policymakers are supporting the near-term outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices have firmed noticeably from recent lows, but this follows very substantial declines over the past couple of years. Australia's terms of trade remain much lower than they had been in recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sentiment in financial markets has improved, after a period of heightened volatility early in the year. However, uncertainty about the global economic outlook and policy settings among the major jurisdictions continues. Funding costs for high-quality borrowers remain very low and, globally, monetary policy remains remarkably accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the available information suggests that the economy is continuing to rebalance following the mining investment boom. GDP growth picked up over 2015, particularly in the second half of the year, and the labour market improved. Indications are that growth is continuing in 2016, though probably at a more moderate pace. Labour market indicators have been more mixed of late.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has been quite low for some time and recent data were unexpectedly low. While the quarterly data contain some temporary factors, these results, together with ongoing very subdued growth in labour costs and very low cost pressures elsewhere in the world, point to a lower outlook for inflation than previously forecast.\cb1 \
\cb2 Monetary policy has been accommodative for quite some time. Low interest rates have been supporting demand and the lower exchange rate overall has helped the traded sector. Credit growth to households continues at a moderate pace, while that to businesses has picked up over the past year or so. These factors are all assisting the economy to make the necessary economic adjustments, though an appreciating exchange rate could complicate this.\cb1 \
\cb2 In reaching today's decision, the Board took careful note of developments in the housing market, where indications are that the effects of supervisory measures are strengthening lending standards and that price pressures have tended to abate. At present, the potential risks of lower interest rates in this area are less than they were a year ago.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking all these considerations into account, the Board judged that prospects for sustainable growth in the economy, with inflation returning to target over time, would be improved by easing monetary policy at this meeting.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information suggests that the global economy is continuing to grow, though at a slightly lower pace than earlier expected. While several advanced economies have recorded improved growth over the past year, conditions have become more difficult for a number of emerging market economies. China's growth rate has continued to moderate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices have generally increased a little recently, but this follows very substantial declines over the past couple of years. Australia's terms of trade remain much lower than they had been in recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sentiment in financial markets has improved recently after a period of heightened volatility. However, uncertainty about the global economic outlook and policy settings among the major jurisdictions continues. Funding costs for high-quality borrowers remain very low and, globally, monetary policy remains remarkably accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the available information suggests that the economy is continuing to rebalance following the mining investment boom. Consistent with developments in the labour market, overall GDP growth picked up over 2015, despite the contraction in mining investment. The pace of lending to businesses has also picked up.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is quite low. Recent information has confirmed that growth in labour costs remains quite subdued. Given this, and with inflation also restrained elsewhere in the world, inflation in Australia is likely to remain low over the next year or two.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given these conditions, it is appropriate for monetary policy to be accommodative. Low interest rates are supporting demand, while supervisory measures are working to emphasise prudent lending standards and so to contain risks in the housing market. Credit growth to households continues at a moderate pace, albeit with a changed composition between investors and owner-occupiers. The pace of growth in dwelling prices has moderated in Melbourne and Sydney and has remained mostly subdued in other cities.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has appreciated somewhat recently. In part, this reflects some increase in commodity prices, but monetary developments elsewhere in the world have also played a role. Under present circumstances, an appreciating exchange rate could complicate the adjustment under way in the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that there were reasonable prospects for continued growth in the economy, with inflation close to target. The Board therefore decided that the current setting of monetary policy remained appropriate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over the period ahead, new information should allow the Board to assess the outlook for inflation and whether the improvement in labour market conditions evident last year is continuing. Continued low inflation would provide scope for easier policy, should that be appropriate to lend support to demand.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information suggests that the global economy is continuing to grow, though at a slightly lower pace than earlier expected. While several advanced economies have recorded improved growth over the past year, conditions have become more difficult for a number of emerging market economies. China's growth rate has continued to moderate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices have declined very substantially over the past couple of years. This partly reflects slower growth in demand but also, in some key instances, large increases in supply. The decline in Australia's terms of trade has continued.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have once again exhibited heightened volatility over recent months, as participants grapple with uncertainty about the global economic outlook and policy settings among the major jurisdictions. Appetite for risk has diminished somewhat and funding conditions for emerging market sovereigns and lesser-rated corporates have tightened. But funding costs for high-quality borrowers remain very low and, globally, monetary policy remains remarkably accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the available information suggests that the expansion in the non-mining parts of the economy strengthened during 2015 despite the contraction in spending in mining investment. This was reflected in improved labour market conditions. The pace of lending to businesses also picked up.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is quite low. With growth in labour costs continuing to be quite subdued as well, and inflation restrained elsewhere in the world, inflation is likely to remain low over the next year or two.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given these conditions, it is appropriate for monetary policy to be accommodative. Low interest rates are supporting demand, while supervisory measures are working to emphasise prudent lending standards and so to contain risks in the housing market. Credit growth to households continues at a moderate pace, albeit with a changed composition between investors and owner-occupiers. The pace of growth in dwelling prices has moderated in Melbourne and Sydney and has remained mostly subdued in other cities. The exchange rate has been adjusting to the evolving economic outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that there were reasonable prospects for continued growth in the economy, with inflation close to target. The Board therefore decided that the current setting of monetary policy remained appropriate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over the period ahead, new information should allow the Board to judge whether the improvement in labour market conditions is continuing and whether the recent financial turbulence portends weaker global and domestic demand. Continued low inflation would provide scope for easier policy, should that be appropriate to lend support to demand.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.0 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent information suggests the global economy is continuing to grow, though at a slightly lower pace than earlier expected. While several advanced economies have recorded improved growth over the past year, conditions have become more difficult for a number of emerging market economies. China's growth rate has continued to moderate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Commodity prices have declined further, especially oil prices. This partly reflects slower growth in demand but also very substantial increases in supply over recent years. The decline in Australia's terms of trade, which began more than four years ago, has therefore continued.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have once again exhibited heightened volatility recently, as participants grapple with uncertainty about the global economic outlook and diverging policy settings among the major jurisdictions. Appetite for risk has diminished somewhat and funding conditions for emerging market sovereigns and lesser-rated corporates have tightened. But funding costs for high-quality borrowers remain very low and, globally, monetary policy remains remarkably accommodative.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the available information suggests that the expansion in the non-mining parts of the economy strengthened during 2015 even as the contraction in spending in mining investment continued. Surveys of business conditions moved to above average levels, employment growth picked up and the unemployment rate declined in the second half of the year, even though measured GDP growth was below average. The pace of lending to businesses also picked up.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation continues to be quite low, with the CPI rising by 1.7 per cent over 2015. This was partly caused by declining prices for oil and some utilities, but underlying measures of inflation are also low at about 2 per cent. With growth in labour costs continuing to be quite subdued as well, and inflation restrained elsewhere in the world, consumer price inflation is likely to remain low over the next year or two.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given these conditions, it is appropriate for monetary policy to be accommodative. Low interest rates are supporting demand, while regulatory measures are working to emphasise prudent lending standards and so to contain risks in the housing market. Credit growth to households continues at a moderate pace, albeit with a changed composition between investors and owner-occupiers. The pace of growth in dwelling prices has moderated in Melbourne and Sydney over recent months and has remained mostly subdued in other cities. The exchange rate has continued its adjustment to the evolving economic outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board judged that there were reasonable prospects for continued growth in the economy, with inflation close to target. The Board therefore decided that the current setting of monetary policy remained appropriate.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over the period ahead, new information should allow the Board to judge whether the recent improvement in labour market conditions is continuing and whether the recent financial turbulence portends weaker global and domestic demand. Continued low inflation may provide scope for easier policy, should that be appropriate to lend support to demand.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the global economy are continuing to improve. Labour markets have tightened and further above-trend growth is expected in a number of advanced economies, although uncertainties remain. Growth in the Chinese economy is being supported by increased spending on infrastructure and property construction, with the high level of debt continuing to present a medium-term risk. Australia's terms of trade are expected to decline in the period ahead but remain at relatively high levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wage growth remains low in most countries, as does core inflation. Headline inflation rates are generally lower than at the start of the year, largely reflecting the earlier decline in oil prices. In the United States, the Federal Reserve has started the process of balance sheet normalisation and expects to increase interest rates further. In a number of other major advanced economies, monetary policy has become a bit less accommodative. Equity markets have been strong, credit spreads have narrowed and volatility in financial markets remains low.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's forecasts for growth in the Australian economy are largely unchanged. The central forecast is for GDP growth to pick up and to average around 3\'a0per\'a0cent over the next few years. Business conditions are positive and capacity utilisation has increased. The outlook for non-mining business investment has improved, with the forward-looking indicators being more positive than they have been for some time. Increased public infrastructure investment is also supporting the economy. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption. Household incomes are growing slowly and debt levels are high.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market has continued to strengthen. Employment has been rising in all states and has been accompanied by a rise in labour force participation. The various forward-looking indicators continue to point to solid growth in employment over the period ahead. The unemployment rate is expected to decline gradually from its current level of 5\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent. Wage growth remains low. This is likely to continue for a while yet, although the stronger conditions in the labour market should see some lift in wage growth over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low, with both CPI and underlying inflation running a little below 2\'a0per\'a0cent. In underlying terms, inflation is likely to remain low for some time, reflecting the slow growth in labour costs and increased competitive pressures, especially in retailing. CPI inflation is being boosted by higher prices for tobacco and electricity. The Bank's central forecast remains for inflation to pick up gradually as the economy strengthens.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has appreciated since mid year, partly reflecting a lower US dollar. The higher exchange rate is expected to contribute to continued subdued price pressures in the economy. It is also weighing on the outlook for output and employment. An appreciating exchange rate would be expected to result in a slower pick-up in economic activity and inflation than currently forecast.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in housing debt has been outpacing the slow growth in household income for some time. To address the medium-term risks associated with high and rising household indebtedness, APRA has introduced a number of supervisory measures. Credit standards have been tightened in a way that has reduced the risk profile of borrowers. Housing market conditions have eased further in Sydney. In most cities, housing prices have shown little change over recent months, although they are still increasing in Melbourne. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. Rent increases remain low in most cities.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the global economy have improved over 2017. Labour markets have tightened and further above-trend growth is expected in a number of advanced economies, although uncertainties remain. Growth in the Chinese economy continues to be supported by increased spending on infrastructure and property construction, although financial conditions have tightened somewhat as the authorities address the medium-term risks from high debt levels. Australia's terms of trade are expected to decline in the period ahead but remain at relatively high levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wage growth remains low in most countries, as does core inflation. In a number of economies there has been some withdrawal of monetary stimulus, although financial conditions remain quite expansionary. Equity markets have been strong, credit spreads have narrowed over the course of the year and volatility in financial markets is low. Long-term bond yields remain low, notwithstanding the improvement in the global economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent data suggest that the Australian economy grew at around its trend rate over the year to the September quarter. The central forecast is for GDP growth to average around 3\'a0per\'a0cent over the next few years. Business conditions are positive and capacity utilisation has increased. The outlook for non-mining business investment has improved further, with the forward-looking indicators being more positive than they have been for some time. Increased public infrastructure investment is also supporting the economy. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption. Household incomes are growing slowly and debt levels are high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment growth has been strong over 2017 and the unemployment rate has declined. Employment has been rising in all states and has been accompanied by a rise in labour force participation. The various forward-looking indicators continue to point to solid growth in employment over the period ahead. There are reports that some employers are finding it more difficult to hire workers with the necessary skills. However, wage growth remains low. This is likely to continue for a while yet, although the stronger conditions in the labour market should see some lift in wage growth over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low, with both CPI and underlying inflation running a little below 2\'a0per\'a0cent. The Bank's central forecast remains for inflation to pick up gradually as the economy strengthens.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years. An appreciating exchange rate would be expected to result in a slower pick-up in economic activity and inflation than currently forecast.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in housing debt has been outpacing the slow growth in household income for some time. To address the medium-term risks associated with high and rising household indebtedness, APRA has introduced a number of supervisory measures. Credit standards have been tightened in a way that has reduced the risk profile of borrowers. Nationwide measures of housing prices are little changed over the past six months, with conditions having eased in Sydney. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. Rent increases remain low in most cities.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the global economy have improved. Labour markets have tightened and above-trend growth is expected in a number of advanced economies, although uncertainties remain. Growth in the Chinese economy is being supported by increased spending on infrastructure and property construction, with the high level of debt continuing to present a medium-term risk. Australia's terms of trade are expected to decline in the period ahead but remain at relatively high levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wage growth remains low in most countries, as does core inflation. Headline inflation rates are generally lower than at the start of the year, largely reflecting the earlier decline in oil prices. In the United States, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it will begin the process of balance sheet normalisation in October and that it expects to increase interest rates further. In the other major economies, there is no longer an expectation of additional monetary easing. Financial markets have been functioning effectively and volatility remains low.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy expanded by 0.8 per cent in the June quarter. This outcome and other recent data are consistent with the Bank's expectation that growth in the Australian economy will gradually pick up over the coming year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over recent months there have been more consistent signs that non-mining business investment is picking up. A consolidation of this trend would be a welcome development. Business conditions as reported in surveys are at a high level and capacity utilisation has risen. A large pipeline of infrastructure investment is also supporting the outlook. Against this, slow growth in real wages and high levels of household debt are likely to constrain growth in household spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment has continued to grow strongly over recent months. Employment has increased in all states and has been accompanied by a rise in labour force participation. The various forward-looking indicators point to solid growth in employment over the period ahead, although the unemployment rate is expected to decline only gradually over the next couple of years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wage growth remains low. This is likely to continue for a while yet, although the stronger conditions in the labour market should see some lift in wage growth over time. Inflation also remains low and is expected to pick up gradually as the economy strengthens.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has appreciated since mid year, partly reflecting a lower US dollar. The higher exchange rate is expected to contribute to continued subdued price pressures in the economy. It is also weighing on the outlook for output and employment. An appreciating exchange rate would be expected to result in a slower pick-up in economic activity and inflation than currently forecast.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in housing debt has been outpacing the slow growth in household incomes for some time. To address the medium-term risks associated with high and rising household indebtedness, APRA has introduced a number of supervisory measures. Following some tightening in credit conditions, growth in borrowing by investors has slowed a little recently. In the housing market, conditions continue to vary considerably around the country. Housing prices have been rising briskly in some markets, while in others they have been declining. In Sydney, where prices have increased significantly, there have been further signs that conditions are easing. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. Rent increases remain low in most cities.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the global economy are continuing to improve. Labour markets have tightened further and above-trend growth is expected in a number of advanced economies, although uncertainties remain. Growth in the Chinese economy is being supported by increased spending on infrastructure and property construction, with the high level of debt continuing to present a medium-term risk. Commodity prices have risen recently, although Australia's terms of trade are still expected to decline over coming years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wage growth remains low in most countries, as does core inflation. Headline inflation rates have declined recently, largely reflecting the earlier decline in oil prices. In the United States, the Federal Reserve expects to increase interest rates further and there is no longer an expectation of additional monetary easing in other major economies. Financial markets have been functioning effectively and volatility remains low.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent data have been consistent with the Bank's expectation that growth in the Australian economy will gradually pick up over the coming year. The decline in mining investment will soon run its course. The outlook for non-mining investment has improved recently and reported business conditions are at a high level. Residential construction activity remains at a high level, but little further growth is expected. Retail sales have picked up recently, although slow growth in real wages and high levels of household debt are likely to constrain future growth in spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment growth has been stronger over recent months and has increased in all states. The various forward-looking indicators point to solid growth in employment over the period ahead. The unemployment rate is expected to decline a little over the next couple of years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wage growth remains low. This is likely to continue for a while yet, although stronger conditions in the labour market should see some lift in wages growth over time. Inflation also remains low and is expected to pick up gradually as the economy strengthens.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has appreciated over recent months, partly reflecting a lower US dollar. The higher exchange rate is expected to contribute to the subdued price pressures in the economy. It is also weighing on the outlook for output and employment. An appreciating exchange rate would be expected to result in a slower pick-up in economic activity and inflation than currently forecast.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the housing market continue to vary considerably around the country. Housing prices have been rising briskly in some markets, although there are signs that conditions are easing, especially in Sydney. In some other markets, prices are declining. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. Rent increases remain low in most cities. Investors in residential property are facing higher interest rates. There has also been some tightening of credit conditions following supervisory measures to address the risks associated with high and rising levels of household indebtedness. Growth in housing debt has been outpacing the slow growth in household incomes.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the global economy are continuing to improve. Labour markets have tightened further and above-trend growth is expected in a number of advanced economies, although uncertainties remain. Growth in the Chinese economy has picked up a little and is being supported by increased spending on infrastructure and property construction, with the high level of debt continuing to present a medium-term risk. Commodity prices have generally risen recently, although Australia's terms of trade are still expected to decline over the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wage growth remains subdued in most countries, as does core inflation. Headline inflation rates have declined recently, largely reflecting the earlier decline in oil prices. In the United States, the Federal Reserve expects to increase interest rates further and there is no longer an expectation of additional monetary easing in other major economies. Financial markets have been functioning effectively and volatility remains low.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's forecasts for the Australian economy are largely unchanged. Over the next couple of years, the central forecast is for the economy to grow at an annual rate of around 3 per cent. The transition to lower levels of mining investment following the mining investment boom is almost complete, with some large LNG projects now close to completion. Business conditions have improved and capacity utilisation has increased. Some pick-up in non-mining business investment is expected. The current high level of residential construction is forecast to be maintained for some time, before gradually easing. One source of uncertainty for the domestic economy is the outlook for consumption. Retail sales have picked up recently, but slow growth in real wages and high levels of household debt are likely to constrain growth in spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment growth has been stronger over recent months, and has increased in all states. The various forward-looking indicators point to continued growth in employment over the period ahead. The unemployment rate is expected to decline a little over the next couple of years. Against this, however, wage growth remains low and this is likely to continue for a while yet.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent inflation data were broadly as the Bank expected. Both CPI inflation and measures of underlying inflation are running at a little under 2\'a0per\'a0cent. Inflation is expected to pick up gradually as the economy strengthens. Higher prices for electricity and tobacco are expected to boost CPI inflation. A factor working in the other direction is increased competition from new entrants in the retail industry.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has appreciated recently, partly reflecting a lower US dollar. The higher exchange rate is expected to contribute to subdued price pressures in the economy. It is also weighing on the outlook for output and employment. An appreciating exchange rate would be expected to result in a slower pick-up in economic activity and inflation than currently forecast.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the housing market vary considerably around the country. Housing prices have been rising briskly in some markets, although there are some signs that these conditions are starting to ease. In some other markets, prices are declining. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. Rent increases remain low in most cities. Investors in residential property are facing higher interest rates. There has also been some tightening of credit conditions following recent supervisory measures to address the risks associated with high and rising levels of household indebtedness. Growth in housing debt has been outpacing the slow growth in household incomes.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The broad-based pick-up in the global economy is continuing. Labour markets have tightened further in many countries and forecasts for global growth have been revised up since last year. Above-trend growth is expected in a number of advanced economies, although uncertainties remain. In China, growth is being supported by increased spending on infrastructure and property construction, with the high level of debt continuing to present a medium-term risk. The rise in commodity prices over the past year has boosted Australia's national income.\cb1 \
\cb2 Headline inflation rates, having moved higher over the past year, have declined recently in response to lower oil prices. Wage growth remains subdued in most countries, as does core inflation. Further increases in US interest rates are expected and there is no longer an expectation of additional monetary easing in other major economies. Financial markets have been functioning effectively and volatility has been low.\cb1 \
\cb2 As expected, GDP growth slowed in the March quarter, partly reflecting temporary factors. The Australian economy is expected to strengthen gradually, with the transition to lower levels of mining investment following the mining investment boom almost complete. Business conditions have improved and capacity utilisation has increased. Business investment has picked up in those parts of the country not directly affected by the decline in mining investment. At the same time, consumption growth remains subdued, reflecting slow growth in real wages and high levels of household debt.\cb1 \
\cb2 Indicators of the labour market remain mixed. Employment growth has been stronger over recent months. The various forward-looking indicators point to continued growth in employment over the period ahead. Wage growth remains low, however, and this is likely to continue for a while yet. Inflation is expected to increase gradually as the economy strengthens.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook continues to be supported by the low level of interest rates. The depreciation of the exchange rate since 2013 has also assisted the economy in its transition following the mining investment boom. An appreciating exchange rate would complicate this adjustment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the housing market vary considerably around the country. Housing prices have been rising briskly in some markets, although there are some signs that these conditions are starting to ease. In some other markets, prices are declining. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. Rent increases are the slowest for two decades. Growth in housing debt has outpaced the slow growth in household incomes. The recent supervisory measures should help address the risks associated with high and rising levels of household indebtedness. Lenders have also announced increases in mortgage rates for investor and interest-only loans.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The broad-based pick-up in the global economy is continuing. Labour markets have tightened further in many countries and forecasts for global growth have been revised up since last year. Above-trend growth is expected in a number of advanced economies, although uncertainties remain. In China, growth is being supported by increased spending on infrastructure and property construction, with the high level of debt continuing to present a medium-term risk. Commodity prices are generally higher than they were a year ago, providing a boost to Australia's national income. The prices of iron ore and coal, however, have declined over recent months as expected, unwinding some of the earlier increases.\cb1 \
\cb2 Headline inflation rates in most countries have moved higher over the past year, partly reflecting the higher commodity prices. Core inflation remains low, as do long-term bond yields. Further increases in US interest rates are expected over the year ahead and there is no longer an expectation of additional monetary easing in other major economies. Financial markets have been functioning effectively.\cb1 \
\cb2 Domestically, the transition to lower levels of mining investment following the mining investment boom is almost complete. Business conditions have improved and capacity utilisation has increased. Business investment has picked up in those parts of the country not directly affected by the decline in mining investment. Year-ended GDP growth is expected to have slowed in the March quarter, reflecting the quarter-to-quarter variation in the growth figures. Looking forward, economic growth is still expected to increase gradually over the next couple of years to a little above 3 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Indicators of the labour market remain mixed. Employment growth has been stronger over recent months, although growth in total hours worked remains weak. The various forward-looking indicators point to continued growth in employment over the period ahead. Wage growth remains low and this is likely to continue for a while yet. Inflation is expected to increase gradually as the economy strengthens. Slow growth in real wages is restraining growth in household consumption.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook continues to be supported by the low level of interest rates. The depreciation of the exchange rate since 2013 has also assisted the economy in its transition following the mining investment boom. An appreciating exchange rate would complicate this adjustment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the housing market vary considerably around the country. Prices have been rising briskly in some markets, although there are some signs that these conditions are starting to ease. In other markets, prices are declining. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. Rent increases are the slowest for two decades. Growth in housing debt has outpaced the slow growth in household incomes. The recent supervisory measures should help address the risks associated with high and rising levels of indebtedness. Lenders have also announced increases in mortgage rates, particularly those paid by investors and on interest-only loans.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 There has been a broad-based pick-up in the global economy since last year. Labour markets have tightened further in many countries and forecasts for global growth have been revised up. Above-trend growth is expected in a number of advanced economies, although uncertainties remain. In China, growth is being supported by increased spending on infrastructure and property construction, with the high level of debt continuing to present a medium-term risk. The improvement in the global economy has contributed to higher commodity prices, which are providing a significant boost to Australia's national income. Australia's terms of trade have increased, although some reversal of this is occurring.\cb1 \
\cb2 Headline inflation rates have moved higher in most countries, partly reflecting the higher commodity prices. Core inflation remains low. Long-term bond yields are higher than last year, although in a historical context they remain low. Interest rates have increased in the United States and there is no longer an expectation of additional monetary easing in other major economies. Financial markets have been functioning effectively.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's forecasts for the Australian economy are little changed. Growth is expected to increase gradually over the next couple of years to a little above 3 per cent. The economy is continuing its transition following the end of the mining investment boom, with the drag from the decline in mining investment coming to an end and exports of resources picking up. Growth in consumption is expected to remain moderate and broadly in line with incomes. Non-mining investment remains low as a share of GDP and a stronger pick-up would be welcome.\cb1 \
\cb2 Indicators of the labour market remain mixed. The unemployment rate has moved a little higher over recent months, but employment growth has been a little stronger. The various forward-looking indicators still point to continued growth in employment over the period ahead. The unemployment rate is expected to decline gradually over time. Wage growth remains slow and this is likely to remain the case for a while yet.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook continues to be supported by the low level of interest rates. Lenders have announced increases in mortgage rates, particularly those paid by investors and on interest-only loans. The depreciation of the exchange rate since 2013 has also assisted the economy in its transition following the mining investment boom. An appreciating exchange rate would complicate this adjustment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation picked up to above 2 per cent in the March quarter in line with the Bank's expectations. In underlying terms, inflation is running at around 1\'be per cent, a little higher than last year. A gradual further increase in underlying inflation is expected as the economy strengthens.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the housing market continue to vary considerably around the country. Prices have been rising briskly in some markets and declining in others. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. Rent increases are the slowest for two decades. Growth in housing debt has outpaced the slow growth in household incomes. The recently announced supervisory measures should help address the risks associated with high and rising levels of indebtedness.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the global economy have improved over recent months. Both global trade and industrial production have picked up. Labour markets have tightened in many countries. Above-trend growth is expected in a number of advanced economies, although uncertainties remain. In China, growth is being supported by higher spending on infrastructure and property construction. This composition of growth and the rapid increase in borrowing mean that the medium-term risks to Chinese growth remain. The improvement in the global economy has contributed to higher commodity prices, which are providing a significant boost to Australia's national income.\cb1 \
\cb2 Headline inflation rates have moved higher in most countries, partly reflecting the higher commodity prices. Core inflation remains low. Long-term bond yields are higher than last year, although in a historical context they remain low. Interest rates have increased in the United States and there is no longer an expectation of additional monetary easing in other major economies. Financial markets have been functioning effectively.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is continuing its transition following the end of the mining investment boom. Recent data are consistent with ongoing moderate growth. Most measures of business confidence are at, or above, average and non-mining business investment has risen over the past year. At the same time, some indicators of conditions in the labour market have softened recently. In particular, the unemployment rate has moved a little higher and employment growth is modest. The various forward-looking indicators still point to continued growth in employment over the period ahead. Wage growth remains slow.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook continues to be supported by the low level of interest rates. Lenders have recently announced increases in mortgage rates, particularly those paid by investors. Financial institutions remain in a good position to lend. The depreciation of the exchange rate since 2013 has also assisted the economy in its transition following the mining investment boom. An appreciating exchange rate would complicate this adjustment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains quite low. Headline inflation is expected to pick up over the course of 2017 to be above 2\'a0per\'a0cent. The rise in underlying inflation is expected to be a bit more gradual with growth in labour costs remaining subdued.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the housing market continue to vary considerably around the country. In some markets, conditions are strong and prices are rising briskly. In other markets, prices are declining. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. Growth in rents is the slowest for two decades.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in household borrowing, largely to purchase housing, continues to outpace growth in household income. By reinforcing strong lending standards, the recently announced supervisory measures should help address the risks associated with high and rising levels of indebtedness. Lenders need to ensure that the serviceability metrics that they use are appropriate for current conditions. A reduced reliance on interest-only housing loans in the Australian market would also be a positive development.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the global economy have continued to improve over recent months. Business and consumer confidence have both picked up. Above-trend growth is expected in a number of advanced economies, although uncertainties remain. In China, growth is being supported by higher spending on infrastructure and property construction. This composition of growth and the rapid increase in borrowing mean that the medium-term risks to Chinese growth remain. The improvement in the global economy has contributed to higher commodity prices, which are providing a significant boost to Australia's national income.\cb1 \
\cb2 Headline inflation rates have moved higher in most countries, partly reflecting the higher commodity prices. Long-term bond yields are higher than last year, although in a historical context they remain low. Interest rates are expected to increase further in the United States and there is no longer an expectation of additional monetary easing in other major economies. Financial markets have been functioning effectively and stock markets have mostly risen.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is continuing its transition following the end of the mining investment boom, expanding by around 2\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent in 2016. Exports have risen strongly and non-mining business investment has risen over the past year. Most measures of business and consumer confidence are at, or above, average. Consumption growth was stronger towards the end of the year, although growth in household income remains low.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook continues to be supported by the low level of interest rates. Financial institutions remain in a good position to lend. The depreciation of the exchange rate since 2013 has also assisted the economy in its transition following the mining investment boom. An appreciating exchange rate would complicate this adjustment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Labour market indicators continue to be mixed and there is considerable variation in employment outcomes across the country. The unemployment rate has been steady at around 5\'be\'a0per\'a0cent over the past year, with employment growth concentrated in part-time jobs. The forward-looking indicators point to continued expansion in employment over the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains quite low. With growth in labour costs remaining subdued, underlying inflation is likely to stay low for some time. Headline inflation is expected to pick up over the course of 2017 to be above 2\'a0per\'a0cent, with the rise in underlying inflation expected to be a bit more gradual.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the housing market vary considerably around the country. In some markets, conditions are strong and prices are rising briskly. In other markets, prices are declining. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. Growth in rents is the slowest for two decades. Borrowing for housing by investors has picked up over recent months. Supervisory measures have contributed to some strengthening of lending standards.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking account of the available information the Board judged that holding the stance of policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\cb1 \
\
\cb2 At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50 per cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the global economy have improved over recent months. Business and consumer confidence have both picked up. Above-trend growth is expected in a number of advanced economies, although uncertainties remain. In China, growth was stronger over the second half of 2016, supported by higher spending on infrastructure and property construction. This composition of growth and the rapid increase in borrowing mean that the medium-term risks to Chinese growth remain. The improvement in the global economy has contributed to higher commodity prices, which are providing a boost to Australia's national income.\cb1 \
\cb2 Headline inflation rates have moved higher in most countries, partly reflecting the higher commodity prices. Long-term bond yields have also moved higher, although in a historical context they remain low. Interest rates have increased in the United States and there is no longer an expectation of further monetary easing in other major economies. Financial markets have been functioning effectively and stock markets have mostly risen.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy is continuing its transition following the end of the mining investment boom. GDP was weaker than expected in the September quarter, largely reflecting temporary factors. A return to reasonable growth is expected in the December quarter.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's central scenario remains for economic growth to be around 3 per cent over the next couple of years. Growth will be boosted by further increases in resource exports and by the period of declining mining investment coming to an end. Consumption growth is expected to pick up from recent outcomes, but to remain moderate. Some further pick-up in non-mining business investment is also expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook continues to be supported by the low level of interest rates. Financial institutions remain in a position to lend. The depreciation of the exchange rate since 2013 has also assisted the economy in its transition following the mining investment boom. An appreciating exchange rate would complicate this adjustment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Labour market indicators continue to be mixed and there is considerable variation in employment outcomes across the country. The unemployment rate has moved a little higher recently, but growth in full-time employment turned positive late in 2016. The forward-looking indicators point to continued expansion in employment over the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains quite low. The December quarter outcome was as expected, with both headline and underlying inflation of around 1\'bd per cent. The Bank's inflation forecasts are largely unchanged. The continuing subdued growth in labour costs means that inflation is expected to remain low for some time. Headline inflation is expected to pick up over the course of 2017 to be above 2 per cent, with the rise in underlying inflation expected to be a bit more gradual.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the housing market vary considerably around the country. In some markets, conditions have strengthened further and prices are rising briskly. In other markets, prices are declining. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. Growth in rents is the slowest for a couple of decades. Borrowing for housing has picked up a little, with stronger demand by investors. With leverage increasing, supervisory measures have strengthened lending standards and some lenders are taking a more cautious attitude to lending in certain segments.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taking account of the available information, and having eased monetary policy in 2016, the Board judged that holding the stance of policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economic expansion is continuing and unemployment rates in most advanced economies are low. There are, however, some signs of a slowdown in global trade, partly stemming from ongoing trade tensions. Growth in China has slowed a little, with the authorities easing policy while continuing to pay close attention to the risks in the financial sector. Globally, inflation remains low, although it has increased due to the earlier lift in oil prices and faster wages growth. A further pick-up in core inflation is expected given the tight labour markets and, in the United States, the sizeable fiscal stimulus.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions in the advanced economies remain expansionary but have tightened somewhat. Equity prices have declined and credit spreads have moved a little higher. There has also been a broad-based appreciation of the US dollar this year. In Australia, money-market interest rates have declined, after increasing earlier in the year. Standard variable mortgage rates are a little higher than a few months ago and the rates charged to new borrowers for housing are generally lower than for outstanding loans.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is performing well. The central scenario is for GDP growth to average around 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over this year and next, before slowing in 2020 due to slower growth in exports of resources. Business conditions are positive and non-mining business investment is expected to increase. Higher levels of public infrastructure investment are also supporting the economy, as is growth in resource exports. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption. Growth in household income remains low, debt levels are high and some asset prices have declined. The drought has led to difficult conditions in parts of the farm sector.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade have increased over the past couple of years and have been stronger than earlier expected. This has helped boost national income. Most commodity prices have, however, declined recently, with oil prices falling significantly. The Australian dollar remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years on a trade-weighted basis.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the labour market remains positive. The unemployment rate is 5\'a0per\'a0cent, the lowest in six years. With the economy expected to continue to grow above trend, a further reduction in the unemployment rate is likely. The vacancy rate is high and there are reports of skills shortages in some areas. The stronger labour market has led to some pick-up in wages growth, which is a welcome development. The improvement in the economy should see some further lift in wages growth over time, although this is still expected to be a gradual process.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low and stable. Over the past year, CPI inflation was 1.9\'a0per\'a0cent and in underlying terms inflation was 1\'be\'a0per\'a0cent. Inflation is expected to pick up over the next couple of years, with the pick-up likely to be gradual. The central scenario is for inflation to be 2\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent in 2019 and a bit higher in the following year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the Sydney and Melbourne housing markets have continued to ease and nationwide measures of rent inflation remain low. Credit conditions for some borrowers are tighter than they have been for some time, with some lenders having a reduced appetite to lend. The demand for credit by investors in the housing market has slowed noticeably as the dynamics of the housing market have changed. Growth in credit extended to owner-occupiers has eased to an annualised pace of 5\'966\'a0per\'a0cent. Mortgage rates remain low, with competition strongest for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economic expansion is continuing. A number of advanced economies are growing at an above-trend rate and unemployment rates are low. Growth in China has slowed a little, with the authorities easing policy while continuing to pay close attention to the risks in the financial sector. Globally, inflation remains low, although it has increased due to both higher oil prices and some lift in wages growth. A further pick-up in inflation is expected given the tight labour markets and, in the United States, the sizeable fiscal stimulus. One ongoing uncertainty regarding the global outlook stems from the direction of international trade policy in the United States.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions in the advanced economies remain expansionary but have tightened somewhat recently. Equity prices have declined and yields on government bonds in some economies have increased, although they remain low. There has also been a broad-based appreciation of the US dollar this year. In Australia, money-market interest rates have declined recently, after increasing earlier in the year. Standard variable mortgage rates are a little higher than a few months ago and the rates charged to new borrowers for housing are generally lower than for outstanding loans.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is performing well. Over the past year, GDP increased by 3.4\'a0per\'a0cent and the unemployment rate declined to 5\'a0per\'a0cent, the lowest in six years. The forecasts for economic growth in 2018 and 2019 have been revised up a little. The central scenario is for GDP growth to average around 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over these two years, before slowing in 2020 due to slower growth in exports of resources. Business conditions are positive and non-mining business investment is expected to increase. Higher levels of public infrastructure investment are also supporting the economy, as is growth in resource exports. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption. Growth in household income remains low, debt levels are high and some asset prices have declined. The drought has led to difficult conditions in parts of the farm sector.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade have increased over the past couple of years and have been stronger than earlier expected. This has helped boost national income. While the terms of trade are expected to decline over time, they are likely to stay at a relatively high level. The Australian dollar remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years on a trade-weighted basis, although it is currently in the lower part of that range.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the labour market remains positive. With the economy growing above trend, a further reduction in the unemployment rate is expected to around 4\'be\'a0per\'a0cent in 2020. The vacancy rate is high and there are reports of skills shortages in some areas. Wages growth remains low, although it has picked up a little. The improvement in the economy should see some further lift in wages growth over time, although this is still expected to be a gradual process.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low and stable. Over the past year, CPI inflation was 1.9\'a0per\'a0cent and, in underlying terms, inflation was 1\'be\'a0per\'a0cent. These outcomes were in line with the Bank's expectations and were influenced by declines in some administered prices due to changes in government policies. Inflation is expected to pick up over the next couple of years, with the pick-up likely to be gradual. The central scenario is for inflation to be 2\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent in 2019 and a bit higher in the following year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the Sydney and Melbourne housing markets have continued to ease and nationwide measures of rent inflation remain low. Growth in credit extended to owner-occupiers has eased but remains robust, while demand by investors has slowed noticeably as the dynamics of the housing market have changed. Credit conditions are tighter than they have been for some time, although mortgage rates remain low and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economic expansion is continuing. A number of advanced economies are growing at an above-trend rate and unemployment rates are low. Growth in China has slowed a little, with the authorities easing policy while continuing to pay close attention to the risks in the financial sector. Globally, inflation remains low, although it has increased due to both higher oil prices and some lift in wages growth. A further pick-up in inflation is expected given the tight labour markets, and in the United States, the sizeable fiscal stimulus. One ongoing uncertainty regarding the global outlook stems from the direction of international trade policy in the United States.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions in the advanced economies remain expansionary, although they are gradually becoming less so in some countries. Yields on government bonds have moved a little higher, but credit spreads generally remain low. There has been a broad-based appreciation of the US dollar this year. In Australia, money-market interest rates are higher than they were at the start of the year, although they have declined since the end of June. In response, some lenders have increased their standard variable mortgage rates by small amounts, while at the same time reducing mortgage rates for some new loans.\cb1 \
\cb2 The latest national accounts confirmed that the Australian economy grew strongly over the past year, with GDP increasing by 3.4\'a0per\'a0cent. The Bank's central forecast remains for growth to average a bit above 3\'a0per\'a0cent in 2018 and 2019. Business conditions are positive and non-mining business investment is expected to increase. Higher levels of public infrastructure investment are also supporting the economy, as is growth in resource exports. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption. Growth in household income remains low and debt levels are high. The drought has led to difficult conditions in parts of the farm sector.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade have increased over the past couple of years due to rises in some commodity prices. While the terms of trade are expected to decline over time, they are likely to stay at a relatively high level. The Australian dollar remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years on a trade-weighted basis, but it has depreciated against the US dollar along with most other currencies.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the labour market remains positive. The unemployment rate is trending lower and, at 5.3\'a0per\'a0cent, is the lowest in almost six years. The vacancy rate is high and there are reports of skills shortages in some areas. A further gradual decline in the unemployment rate is expected over the next couple of years to around 5\'a0per\'a0cent. Wages growth remains low, although it has picked up a little. The improvement in the economy should see some further lift in wages growth over time, although this is likely to be a gradual process.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is around 2\'a0per\'a0cent. The central forecast is for inflation to be higher in 2019 and 2020 than it is currently. In the interim, once-off declines in some administered prices in the September quarter are expected to result in inflation in 2018 being a little lower than otherwise.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the Sydney and Melbourne housing markets have continued to ease and nationwide measures of rent inflation remain low. Growth in credit extended to owner-occupiers remains robust, but demand by investors has slowed noticeably as the dynamics of the housing market have changed. Credit conditions are tighter than they have been for some time, although mortgage rates remain low and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economic expansion is continuing. A number of advanced economies are growing at an above-trend rate and unemployment rates are low. Growth in China has slowed a little, with the authorities easing policy while continuing to pay close attention to the risks in the financial sector. Globally, inflation remains low, although it has increased in some economies and further increases are expected given the tight labour markets. One ongoing uncertainty regarding the global outlook stems from the direction of international trade policy in the United States.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions remain expansionary, although they are gradually becoming less so in some countries. There has been a broad-based appreciation of the US dollar this year. In Australia, money-market interest rates are higher than they were at the start of the year, although they have declined somewhat since the end of June. These higher money-market rates have not fed through into higher interest rates on retail deposits. Some lenders have increased mortgage rates by small amounts, although the average mortgage rate paid is lower than a year ago.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's central forecast is for growth of the Australian economy to average a bit above 3\'a0per\'a0cent in 2018 and 2019. In the first half of 2018, the economy is estimated to have grown at an above-trend rate. Business conditions are positive and non-mining business investment is expected to increase. Higher levels of public infrastructure investment are also supporting the economy, as is growth in resource exports. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption. Household income has been growing slowly and debt levels are high. The drought has led to difficult conditions in parts of the farm sector.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade have increased over the past couple of years due to rises in some commodity prices. While the terms of trade are expected to decline over time, they are likely to stay at a relatively high level. The Australian dollar remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years on a trade-weighted basis, but it has depreciated against the US dollar along with most other currencies.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the labour market remains positive. The unemployment rate has fallen to 5.3\'a0per\'a0cent, the lowest level in almost six years. The vacancy rate is high and there are reports of skills shortages in some areas. A further gradual decline in the unemployment rate is expected over the next couple of years to around 5\'a0per\'a0cent. Wages growth remains low, although it has picked up a little recently. The improvement in the economy should see some further lift in wages growth over time, although this is likely to be a gradual process.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is around 2\'a0per\'a0cent. The central forecast is for inflation to be higher in 2019 and 2020 than it is currently. In the interim, once-off declines in some administered prices in the September quarter are expected to result in headline inflation in 2018 being a little lower, at 1\'be\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the Sydney and Melbourne housing markets have continued to ease and nationwide measures of rent inflation remain low. Housing credit growth has declined to an annual rate of 5\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent. This is largely due to reduced demand by investors as the dynamics of the housing market have changed. Lending standards are also tighter than they were a few years ago, partly reflecting APRA's earlier supervisory measures to help contain the build-up of risk in household balance sheets. There is competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economic expansion is continuing. A number of advanced economies are growing at an above-trend rate and unemployment rates are low. Growth in China has slowed a little, with the authorities easing policy while continuing to pay close attention to the risks in the financial sector. Globally, inflation remains low, although it has increased in some economies and further increases are expected given the tight labour markets. One uncertainty regarding the global outlook stems from the direction of international trade policy in the United States.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions remain expansionary, although they are gradually becoming less so in some countries. There has been a broad-based appreciation of the US dollar over recent months. In Australia, money-market interest rates are higher than they were at the start of the year, although they have declined somewhat since the end of June. These higher money-market rates have not fed through into higher interest rates on retail deposits. Some lenders have increased mortgage rates by small amounts, although the average mortgage rate paid is lower than a year ago.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's central forecast for the Australian economy remains unchanged. GDP growth is expected to average a bit above 3\'a0per\'a0cent in 2018 and 2019. This should see some further reduction in spare capacity. Business conditions are positive and non-mining business investment is continuing to increase. Higher levels of public infrastructure investment are also supporting the economy, as is growth in resource exports. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption. Household income has been growing slowly and debt levels are high. The drought has led to difficult conditions in parts of the farm sector.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's terms of trade have increased over the past couple of years due to rises in some commodity prices. While the terms of trade are expected to decline over time, they are likely to stay at a relatively high level. The Australian dollar remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the labour market remains positive. The vacancy rate is high and other forward-looking indicators continue to point to solid growth in employment. Employment growth continues to be faster than growth in the working-age population. A further gradual decline in the unemployment rate is expected over the next couple of years to around 5\'a0per\'a0cent. Wages growth remains low. This is likely to continue for a while yet, although the improvement in the economy should see some lift in wages growth over time. Consistent with this, the rate of wages growth appears to have troughed and there are increased reports of skills shortages in some areas.\cb1 \
\cb2 The latest inflation data were in line with the Bank's expectations. Over the past year, the CPI increased by 2.1\'a0per\'a0cent, and in underlying terms, inflation was close to 2\'a0per\'a0cent. The central forecast is for inflation to be higher in 2019 and 2020 than it is currently. In the interim, once-off declines in some administered prices in the September quarter are expected to result in headline inflation in 2018 being a little lower than earlier expected, at 1\'be\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the Sydney and Melbourne housing markets have continued to ease and nationwide measures of rent inflation remain low. Housing credit growth has declined to an annual rate of 5\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent. This is largely due to reduced demand by investors as the dynamics of the housing market have changed. Lending standards are also tighter than they were a few years ago, partly reflecting APRA's earlier supervisory measures to help contain the build-up of risk in household balance sheets. There is competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economic expansion is continuing. A number of advanced economies are growing at an above-trend rate and unemployment rates are low. The Chinese economy continues to grow solidly, with the authorities paying increased attention to the risks in the financial sector and the sustainability of growth. Globally, inflation remains low, although it has increased in some economies and further increases are expected given the tight labour markets. One uncertainty regarding the global outlook stems from the direction of international trade policy in the United States. There have also been strains in a few emerging market economies, largely for country-specific reasons.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions remain expansionary, although they are gradually becoming less so in some countries. There has been a broad-based appreciation of the US dollar. In Australia, short-term wholesale interest rates have increased over recent months. This is partly due to developments in the United States, but there are other factors at work as well. It remains to be seen the extent to which these factors persist.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent data on the Australian economy continue to be consistent with the Bank's central forecast for GDP growth to average a bit above 3\'a0per\'a0cent in 2018 and 2019. GDP grew strongly in the March quarter, with the economy expanding by 3.1\'a0per\'a0cent over the year. Business conditions are positive and non-mining business investment is continuing to increase. Higher levels of public infrastructure investment are also supporting the economy. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption. Household income has been growing slowly and debt levels are high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Higher commodity prices have provided a boost to national income recently. Australia's terms of trade are, however, expected to decline over the next few years, but remain at a relatively high level. The Australian dollar has depreciated a little, but remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the labour market remains positive. Strong growth in employment has been accompanied by a significant rise in labour force participation. The vacancy rate is high and other forward-looking indicators continue to point to solid growth in employment. A gradual decline in the unemployment rate is expected, after being steady at around 5\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent for much of the past year. Wages growth remains low. This is likely to continue for a while yet, although the stronger economy should see some lift in wages growth over time. Consistent with this, the rate of wages growth appears to have troughed and there are increasing reports of skills shortages in some areas.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is low and is likely to remain so for some time, reflecting low growth in labour costs and strong competition in retailing. A gradual pick-up in inflation is, however, expected as the economy strengthens. The central forecast is for CPI inflation to be a bit above 2\'a0per\'a0cent in 2018.\cb1 \
\cb2 Nationwide measures of housing prices are little changed over the past six months. Conditions in the Sydney and Melbourne housing markets have eased, with prices declining in both markets. Housing credit growth has declined, with investor demand having slowed noticeably. Lending standards are tighter than they were a few years ago, with APRA's supervisory measures helping to contain the build-up of risk in household balance sheets. Some further tightening of lending standards by banks is possible, although the average mortgage interest rate on outstanding loans has been declining for some time.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy has strengthened over the past year. A number of advanced economies are growing at an above-trend rate and unemployment rates are low. The Chinese economy continues to grow solidly, with the authorities paying increased attention to the risks in the financial sector and the sustainability of growth. Globally, inflation remains low, although it has increased in some economies and further increases are expected given the tight labour markets. As conditions have improved in the global economy, a number of central banks have withdrawn some monetary stimulus and further steps in this direction are expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial markets have been affected by political developments in the eurozone, particularly in Italy. There are also concerns about the direction of international trade policy in the United States and economic developments in a few emerging market economies. Long-term bond yields in most major economies have declined recently and there has been some widening of corporate credit spreads. Overall, though, financial conditions remain expansionary. Conditions in US dollar short-term money markets have eased recently, although they are tighter than earlier in the year, with US dollar short-term interest rates having increased for reasons other than the increase in the federal funds rate. The higher rates in the United States have flowed through to higher short-term interest rates in a few other countries, including Australia.\cb1 \
\cb2 The price of oil has increased over recent months, as have the prices of some base metals. Australia's terms of trade are expected to decline over the next few years, but remain at a relatively high level.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent data on the Australian economy have been consistent with the Bank's central forecast for GDP growth to pick up, to average a bit above 3\'a0per\'a0cent in 2018 and 2019. Business conditions are positive and non-mining business investment is increasing. Higher levels of public infrastructure investment are also supporting the economy. Stronger growth in exports is expected. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption. Household income has been growing slowly and debt levels are high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment has grown strongly over the past year, although growth has slowed over recent months. The strong growth in employment has been accompanied by a significant rise in labour force participation, particularly by women and older Australians. The unemployment rate has been little changed at around 5\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent for much of the past year. The various forward-looking indicators continue to point to solid growth in employment in the period ahead, with a gradual reduction in the unemployment rate expected. Wages growth remains low. This is likely to continue for a while yet, although the stronger economy should see some lift in wages growth over time. Consistent with this, the rate of wages growth appears to have troughed and there are reports that some employers are finding it more difficult to hire workers with the necessary skills.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is low and is likely to remain so for some time, reflecting low growth in labour costs and strong competition in retailing. A gradual pick-up in inflation is, however, expected as the economy strengthens. The central forecast is for CPI inflation to be a bit above 2\'a0per\'a0cent in 2018.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years. An appreciating exchange rate would be expected to result in a slower pick-up in economic activity and inflation than currently forecast.\cb1 \
\cb2 The housing markets in Sydney and Melbourne have slowed. Nationwide measures of housing prices are little changed over the past six months, with prices having recorded falls in some areas. Housing credit growth has slowed over the past year, especially to investors. APRA's supervisory measures and tighter credit standards have been helpful in containing the build-up of risk in household balance sheets, although the level of household debt remains high. While there may be some further tightening of lending standards, the average mortgage interest rate on outstanding loans is continuing to decline.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy has strengthened over the past year. A number of advanced economies are growing at an above-trend rate and unemployment rates are low. The Chinese economy continues to grow solidly, with the authorities paying increased attention to the risks in the financial sector and the sustainability of growth. Globally, inflation remains low, although it has increased in some economies and further increases are expected given the tight labour markets. As conditions have improved in the global economy, a number of central banks have withdrawn some monetary stimulus and further steps in this direction are expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 Long-term bond yields have risen over the past six months, but are still low. Equity market volatility has increased from the very low levels of last year, partly because of concerns about the direction of international trade policy in the United States. Credit spreads have also widened a little, but remain low. Financial conditions generally remain expansionary. Conditions in US dollar short-term money markets have, however, tightened over the past few months, with US dollar short-term interest rates having increased for reasons other than the increase in the federal funds rate. This has flowed through to higher short-term interest rates in a few other countries, including Australia.\cb1 \
\cb2 The price of oil has increased recently, as have the prices of some base metals. Australia's terms of trade are expected to decline over the next few years, but remain at a relatively high level.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's central forecast for the Australian economy remains for growth to pick up, to average a bit above 3\'a0per\'a0cent in 2018 and 2019. This should see some reduction in spare capacity in the economy. Business conditions are positive and non-mining business investment is increasing. Higher levels of public infrastructure investment are also supporting the economy. Stronger growth in exports is expected. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption, although consumption growth picked up in late 2017. Household income has been growing slowly and debt levels are high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment has grown strongly over the past year, although growth has slowed over recent months. The strong growth in employment has been accompanied by a significant rise in labour force participation, particularly by women and older Australians. The unemployment rate has declined over the past year, but has been steady at around 5\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent for some months. The various forward-looking indicators continue to point to solid growth in employment in the period ahead, with a further gradual reduction in the unemployment rate expected. Notwithstanding the improving labour market, wages growth remains low. This is likely to continue for a while yet, although the stronger economy should see some lift in wages growth over time. Consistent with this, the rate of wages growth appears to have troughed and there are reports that some employers are finding it more difficult to hire workers with the necessary skills.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low. The recent inflation data were in line with the Bank's expectations, with both CPI and underlying inflation running marginally below 2\'a0per\'a0cent. Inflation is likely to remain low for some time, reflecting low growth in labour costs and strong competition in retailing. A gradual pick-up in inflation is, however, expected as the economy strengthens. The central forecast is for CPI inflation to be a bit above 2\'a0per\'a0cent in 2018.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian dollar has depreciated a little recently, but on a trade-weighted basis remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years. An appreciating exchange rate would be expected to result in a slower pick-up in economic activity and inflation than currently forecast.\cb1 \
\cb2 The housing markets in Sydney and Melbourne have slowed. Nationwide measures of housing prices are little changed over the past six months, with prices having recorded falls in some areas. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. APRA's supervisory measures and tighter credit standards have been helpful in containing the build-up of risk in household balance sheets, although the level of household debt remains high.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy has strengthened over the past year. A number of advanced economies are growing at an above-trend rate and unemployment rates are low. The Chinese economy continues to grow solidly, with the authorities paying increased attention to the risks in the financial sector and the sustainability of growth. Globally, inflation remains low, although it has increased in some economies and further increases are expected given the tight labour markets. As conditions have improved in the global economy, a number of central banks have withdrawn some monetary stimulus and further steps in this direction are expected.\cb1 \
\cb2 Long-term bond yields have risen over the past six months, but are still low. Equity market volatility has increased from the very low levels of last year, partly because of concerns about the direction of international trade policy in the United States. Credit spreads have also widened a little, but remain low. Financial conditions generally remain expansionary. There has, however, been some tightening of conditions in US dollar short-term money markets, with US dollar short-term interest rates increasing for reasons other than the increase in the federal funds rate. This has flowed through to higher short-term interest rates in a few other countries, including Australia.\cb1 \
\cb2 The prices of a number of Australia's commodity exports have fallen recently, but remain within the ranges seen over the past year or so. Australia's terms of trade are expected to decline over the next few years, but remain at a relatively high level.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy grew by 2.4\'a0per\'a0cent over 2017. The Bank's central forecast remains for faster growth in 2018. Business conditions are positive and non-mining business investment is increasing. Higher levels of public infrastructure investment are also supporting the economy. Stronger growth in exports is expected after temporary weakness at the end of 2017. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption, although consumption growth picked up in late 2017. Household income has been growing slowly and debt levels are high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment has grown strongly over the past year, with employment rising in all states. The strong growth in employment has been accompanied by a significant rise in labour force participation, particularly by women and older Australians. The unemployment rate has declined over the past year, but has been steady at around 5\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over the past six months. The various forward-looking indicators continue to point to solid growth in employment in the period ahead, with a further gradual reduction in the unemployment rate expected. Notwithstanding the improving labour market, wages growth remains low. This is likely to continue for a while yet, although the stronger economy should see some lift in wages growth over time. Consistent with this, the rate of wages growth appears to have troughed and there are reports that some employers are finding it more difficult to hire workers with the necessary skills.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low, with both CPI and underlying inflation running a little below 2\'a0per\'a0cent. Inflation is likely to remain low for some time, reflecting low growth in labour costs and strong competition in retailing. A gradual pick-up in inflation is, however, expected as the economy strengthens. The central forecast is for CPI inflation to be a bit above 2\'a0per\'a0cent in 2018.\cb1 \
\cb2 On a trade-weighted basis, the Australian dollar remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years. An appreciating exchange rate would be expected to result in a slower pick-up in economic activity and inflation than currently forecast.\cb1 \
\cb2 The housing markets in Sydney and Melbourne have slowed. Nationwide measures of housing prices are little changed over the past six months, with prices having recorded falls in some areas. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. APRA's supervisory measures and tighter credit standards have been helpful in containing the build-up of risk in household balance sheets, although the level of household debt remains high.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy has strengthened over the past year. A number of advanced economies are growing at an above-trend rate and unemployment rates are low. Growth picked up in the Asian economies in 2017, partly supported by increased international trade. The Chinese economy continues to grow solidly, with the authorities paying increased attention to the risks in the financial sector and the sustainability of growth.\cb1 \
\cb2 The pick-up in the global economy has contributed to a rise in oil and other commodity prices over the past year. Even so, Australia's terms of trade are expected to decline over the next few years, but remain at a relatively high level.\cb1 \
\cb2 Globally, inflation remains low, although higher commodity prices and tight labour markets are likely to see inflation increase over the next couple of years. Long-term bond yields have risen but are still low. Market volatility has increased from the very low levels of last year. As conditions have improved in the global economy, a number of central banks have withdrawn some monetary stimulus. Financial conditions remain expansionary, with credit spreads narrow.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's central forecast is for the Australian economy to grow faster in 2018 than it did in 2017. Business conditions are positive and non-mining business investment is increasing. Higher levels of public infrastructure investment are also supporting the economy. Further growth in exports is expected after temporary weakness at the end of 2017. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption. Household incomes are growing slowly and debt levels are high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment grew strongly over the past year and the unemployment rate declined. Employment has been rising in all states and has been accompanied by a significant rise in labour force participation. The various forward-looking indicators continue to point to solid growth in employment over the period ahead, with a further gradual reduction in the unemployment rate expected. Notwithstanding the improving labour market, wage growth remains low. This is likely to continue for a while yet, although the stronger economy should see some lift in wage growth over time. Consistent with this, the rate of wage growth appears to have troughed and there are reports that some employers are finding it more difficult to hire workers with the necessary skills.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low, with both CPI and underlying inflation running a little below 2\'a0per\'a0cent. Inflation is likely to remain low for some time, reflecting low growth in labour costs and strong competition in retailing. A gradual pick-up in inflation is, however, expected as the economy strengthens. The central forecast is for CPI inflation to be a bit above 2\'a0per\'a0cent in 2018.\cb1 \
\cb2 On a trade-weighted basis, the Australian dollar remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years. An appreciating exchange rate would be expected to result in a slower pick-up in economic activity and inflation than currently forecast.\cb1 \
\cb2 The housing markets in Sydney and Melbourne have slowed. Nationwide measures of housing prices are little changed over the past six months, with prices having recorded falls in some areas. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. APRA's supervisory measures and tighter credit standards have been helpful in containing the build-up of risk in household balance sheets, although the level of household debt remains high.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 There was a broad-based pick-up in the global economy in 2017. A number of advanced economies are growing at an above-trend rate and unemployment rates are low. Growth has also picked up in the Asian economies, partly supported by increased international trade. The Chinese economy continues to grow solidly, with the authorities paying increased attention to the risks in the financial sector and the sustainability of growth.\cb1 \
\cb2 The pick-up in the global economy has contributed to a rise in oil and other commodity prices over recent months. Even so, Australia's terms of trade are expected to decline over the next couple of years, but remain at a relatively high level.\cb1 \
\cb2 Globally, inflation remains low, although higher commodity prices and tight labour markets are likely to see inflation increase over the next couple of years. Long-term bond yields have risen but are still low. As conditions have improved in the global economy, a number of central banks have withdrawn some monetary stimulus. Financial conditions remain expansionary, with credit spreads narrow.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's central forecast for the Australian economy is for GDP growth to pick up, to average a bit above 3\'a0per\'a0cent over the next couple of years. The data over the summer have been consistent with this outlook. Business conditions are positive and the outlook for non-mining business investment has improved. Increased public infrastructure investment is also supporting the economy. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption. Household incomes are growing slowly and debt levels are high.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment grew strongly over 2017 and the unemployment rate declined. Employment has been rising in all states and has been accompanied by a significant rise in labour force participation. The various forward-looking indicators continue to point to solid growth in employment over the period ahead, with a further gradual reduction in the unemployment rate expected. Notwithstanding the improving labour market, wage growth remains low. This is likely to continue for a while yet, although the stronger economy should see some lift in wage growth over time. There are reports that some employers are finding it more difficult to hire workers with the necessary skills.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is low, with both CPI and underlying inflation running a little below 2\'a0per\'a0cent. Inflation is likely to remain low for some time, reflecting low growth in labour costs and strong competition in retailing. A gradual pick-up in inflation is, however, expected as the economy strengthens. The central forecast is for CPI inflation to be a bit above 2\'a0per\'a0cent in 2018.\cb1 \
\cb2 On a trade-weighted basis, the Australian dollar remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years. An appreciating exchange rate would be expected to result in a slower pick-up in economic activity and inflation than currently forecast.\cb1 \
\cb2 Nationwide measures of housing prices are little changed over the past six months, with prices having recorded falls in some areas. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. To address the medium-term risks associated with high and rising household indebtedness, APRA introduced a number of supervisory measures. Tighter credit standards have also been helpful in containing the build-up of risk in household balance sheets.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 0.75\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the global economy remains reasonable. While the risks are still tilted to the downside, some of these risks have lessened recently. The US\'96China trade and technology disputes continue to affect international trade flows and investment as businesses scale back spending plans because of the uncertainty. At the same time, in most advanced economies unemployment rates are low and wages growth has picked up, although inflation remains low. In China, the authorities have taken steps to support the economy while continuing to address risks in the financial system.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates are very low around the world and a number of central banks have eased monetary policy over recent months in response to the downside risks and subdued inflation. Expectations of further monetary easing have generally been scaled back. Financial market sentiment has continued to improve and long-term government bond yields are around record lows in many countries, including Australia. Borrowing rates for both businesses and households are at historically low levels. The Australian dollar is at the lower end of its range over recent times.\cb1 \
\cb2 After a soft patch in the second half of last year, the Australian economy appears to have reached a gentle turning point. The central scenario is for growth to pick up gradually to around 3\'a0per\'a0cent in 2021. The low level of interest rates, recent tax cuts, ongoing spending on infrastructure, the upswing in housing prices and a brighter outlook for the resources sector should all support growth. The main domestic uncertainty continues to be the outlook for consumption, with the sustained period of only modest increases in household disposable income continuing to weigh on consumer spending. Other sources of uncertainty include the effects of the drought and the evolution of the housing construction cycle.\cb1 \
\cb2 The unemployment rate has been steady at around 5\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent over recent months. It is expected to remain around this level for some time, before gradually declining to a little below 5\'a0per\'a0cent in 2021. Wages growth is subdued and is expected to remain at around its current rate for some time yet. A further gradual lift in wages growth would be a welcome development and is needed for inflation to be sustainably within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range. Taken together, recent outcomes suggest that the Australian economy can sustain lower rates of unemployment and underemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is expected to pick up, but to do so only gradually. In both headline and underlying terms, inflation is expected to be close to 2\'a0per\'a0cent in 2020 and 2021.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are further signs of a turnaround in established housing markets. This is especially so in Sydney and Melbourne, but prices in some other markets have also increased recently. In contrast, new dwelling activity is still declining and growth in housing credit remains low. Demand for credit by investors is subdued and credit conditions, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, remain tight. Mortgage rates are at record lows and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 The easing of monetary policy this year is supporting employment and income growth in Australia and a return of inflation to the medium-term target range. The lower cash rate has put downward pressure on the exchange rate, which is supporting activity across a range of industries. It has also boosted asset prices, which in time should lead to increased spending, including on residential construction. Lower mortgage rates are also boosting aggregate household disposable income, which, in time, will boost household spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given these effects of lower interest rates and the long and variable lags in the transmission of monetary policy, the Board decided to hold the cash rate steady at this meeting while it continues to monitor developments, including in the labour market. The Board also agreed that due to both global and domestic factors, it was reasonable to expect that an extended period of low interest rates will be required in Australia to reach full employment and achieve the inflation target. The Board is prepared to ease monetary policy further if needed to support sustainable growth in the economy, full employment and the achievement of the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 0.75\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 While the outlook for the global economy remains reasonable, the risks are tilted to the downside. The US\'96China trade and technology disputes continue to affect international trade flows and investment as businesses scale back spending plans because of the uncertainty. At the same time, in most advanced economies, unemployment rates are low and wages growth has picked up, although inflation remains low. In China, the authorities have taken steps to support the economy while continuing to address risks in the financial system.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates are very low around the world and a number of central banks have eased monetary policy in response to the persistent downside risks and subdued inflation. Expectations of further monetary easing have generally been scaled back over the past month and financial market sentiment has improved a little. Even so, long-term government bond yields are around record lows in many countries, including Australia. Borrowing rates for both businesses and households are also at historically low levels. The Australian dollar is at the lower end of its range over recent times.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the Australian economy is little changed from three months ago. After a soft patch in the second half of last year, a gentle turning point appears to have been reached. The central scenario is for the Australian economy to grow by around 2\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent this year and then for growth gradually to pick up to around 3\'a0per\'a0cent in 2021. The low level of interest rates, recent tax cuts, ongoing spending on infrastructure, the upswing in housing prices in some markets and a brighter outlook for the resources sector should all support growth. The main domestic uncertainty continues to be the outlook for consumption, with the sustained period of only modest increases in household disposable income continuing to weigh on consumer spending. Other sources of uncertainty include the effects of the drought and the evolution of the housing construction cycle.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment has continued to grow strongly and has been matched by strong growth in labour supply, with labour force participation at a record high. The unemployment rate has remained steady at around 5\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent over recent months. It is expected to remain around this level for some time, before gradually declining to a little below 5\'a0per\'a0cent in 2021. Wages growth remains subdued and is expected to remain at around its current rate for some time yet. A further gradual lift in wages growth would be a welcome development and is needed for inflation to be sustainably within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range. Taken together, recent outcomes suggest that the Australian economy can sustain lower rates of unemployment and underemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent inflation data were broadly as expected, with headline inflation at 1.7\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to the September quarter. The central scenario remains for inflation to pick up, but to do so only gradually. In both headline and underlying terms, inflation is expected to be close to 2\'a0per\'a0cent in 2020 and 2021.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are further signs of a turnaround in established housing markets, especially in Sydney and Melbourne. In contrast, new dwelling activity is still declining and growth in housing credit remains low. Demand for credit by investors is subdued and credit conditions, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, remain tight. Mortgage rates are at record lows and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 The easing of monetary policy since June is supporting employment and income growth in Australia and a return of inflation to the medium-term target range. Given global developments and the evidence of the spare capacity in the Australian economy, it is reasonable to expect that an extended period of low interest rates will be required in Australia to reach full employment and achieve the inflation target. The Board will continue to monitor developments, including in the labour market, and is prepared to ease monetary policy further if needed to support sustainable growth in the economy, full employment and the achievement of the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25\'a0basis points to 0.75\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 While the outlook for the global economy remains reasonable, the risks are tilted to the downside. The US\'96China trade and technology disputes are affecting international trade flows and investment as businesses scale back spending plans because of the increased uncertainty. At the same time, in most advanced economies, unemployment rates are low and wages growth has picked up, although inflation remains low. In China, the authorities have taken further steps to support the economy, while continuing to address risks in the financial system.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates are very low around the world and further monetary easing is widely expected, as central banks respond to the persistent downside risks to the global economy and subdued inflation. Long-term government bond yields are around record lows in many countries, including Australia. Borrowing rates for both businesses and households are also at historically low levels. The Australian dollar is at its lowest level of recent times.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy expanded by 1.4\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to the June quarter, which was a weaker-than-expected outcome. A gentle turning point, however, appears to have been reached with economic growth a little higher over the first half of this year than over the second half of 2018. The low level of interest rates, recent tax cuts, ongoing spending on infrastructure, signs of stabilisation in some established housing markets and a brighter outlook for the resources sector should all support growth. The main domestic uncertainty continues to be the outlook for consumption, with the sustained period of only modest increases in household disposable income continuing to weigh on consumer spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment has continued to grow strongly and labour force participation is at a record high. The unemployment rate has, however, remained steady at around 5\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent over recent months. Forward-looking indicators of labour demand indicate that employment growth is likely to slow from its recent fast rate. Wages growth remains subdued and there is little upward pressure at present, with increased labour demand being met by more supply. Caps on wages growth are also affecting public-sector pay outcomes across the country. A further gradual lift in wages growth would be a welcome development. Taken together, recent outcomes suggest that the Australian economy can sustain lower rates of unemployment and underemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation pressures remain subdued and this is likely to be the case for some time yet. In both headline and underlying terms, inflation is expected to be a little under 2\'a0per\'a0cent over 2020 and a little above 2\'a0per\'a0cent over 2021.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are further signs of a turnaround in established housing markets, especially in Sydney and Melbourne. In contrast, new dwelling activity has weakened and growth in housing credit remains low. Demand for credit by investors is subdued and credit conditions, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, remain tight. Mortgage rates are at record lows and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board took the decision to lower interest rates further today to support employment and income growth and to provide greater confidence that inflation will be consistent with the medium-term target. The economy still has spare capacity and lower interest rates will help make inroads into that. The Board also took account of the forces leading to the trend to lower interest rates globally and the effects this trend is having on the Australian economy and inflation outcomes.\cb1 \
\cb2 It is reasonable to expect that an extended period of low interest rates will be required in Australia to reach full employment and achieve the inflation target. The Board will continue to monitor developments, including in the labour market, and is prepared to ease monetary policy further if needed to support sustainable growth in the economy, full employment and the achievement of the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.00\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the global economy remains reasonable, although the risks are tilted to the downside. The trade and technology disputes are affecting international trade flows and investment as businesses scale back spending plans due to the increased uncertainty. At the same time, in most advanced economies, unemployment rates are low and wages growth has picked up, although inflation remains low. In China, the authorities have taken further steps to support the economy, while continuing to address risks in the financial system.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global financial conditions remain accommodative. The persistent downside risks to the global economy combined with subdued inflation have led a number of central banks to reduce interest rates this year and further monetary easing is widely expected. Long-term government bond yields have declined and are at record lows in many countries, including Australia. Borrowing rates for both businesses and households are also at historically low levels. The Australian dollar is at its lowest level of recent times.\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic growth in Australia over the first half of this year has been lower than earlier expected, with household consumption weighed down by a protracted period of low income growth and declining housing prices and turnover. Looking forward, growth in Australia is expected to strengthen gradually to be around trend over the next couple of years. The outlook is being supported by the low level of interest rates, recent tax cuts, ongoing spending on infrastructure, signs of stabilisation in some established housing markets and a brighter outlook for the resources sector. The main domestic uncertainty continues to be the outlook for consumption, although a pick-up in growth in household disposable income and a stabilisation of the housing market are expected to support spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment has grown strongly over recent years and labour force participation is at a record high. The unemployment rate has, however, remained steady at 5.2\'a0per\'a0cent over recent months. Wages growth remains subdued and there is little upward pressure at present, with strong labour demand being met by more supply. Caps on wages growth are also affecting public-sector pay outcomes across the country. A further gradual lift in wages growth would be a welcome development. Taken together, recent labour market outcomes suggest that the Australian economy can sustain lower rates of unemployment and underemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation pressures remain subdued and this is likely to be the case for some time yet. In both headline and underlying terms, inflation is expected to be a little under 2\'a0per\'a0cent over 2020 and a little above 2\'a0per\'a0cent over 2021.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are further signs of a turnaround in established housing markets, especially in Sydney and Melbourne. In contrast, new dwelling activity has weakened. Growth in housing credit remains low. Demand for credit by investors continues to be subdued and credit conditions, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, remain tight. Mortgage rates are at record lows and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 It is reasonable to expect that an extended period of low interest rates will be required in Australia to make progress in reducing unemployment and achieve more assured progress towards the inflation target. The Board will continue to monitor developments, including in the labour market, and ease monetary policy further if needed to support sustainable growth in the economy and the achievement of the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.00\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the global economy remains reasonable. However, the increased uncertainty generated by the trade and technology disputes is affecting investment and means that the risks to the global economy remain tilted to the downside. In most advanced economies, unemployment rates are low and wages growth has picked up, although inflation remains low. The slowdown in global trade has contributed to slower growth in Asia. In China, the authorities have taken steps to support the economy, while continuing to address risks in the financial system.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global financial conditions remain accommodative. The persistent downside risks to the global economy combined with subdued inflation have led a number of central banks to reduce interest rates this year and further monetary easing is widely expected. Long-term government bond yields have declined further and are at record lows in many countries, including Australia. Borrowing rates for both businesses and households are also at historically low levels. The Australian dollar is at its lowest level of recent times.\cb1 \
\cb2 Economic growth in Australia over the first half of this year has been lower than earlier expected, with household consumption weighed down by a protracted period of low income growth and declining housing prices. Looking forward, growth in Australia is expected to strengthen gradually from here. The central scenario is for the Australian economy to grow by around 2\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over 2019 and 2\'be\'a0per\'a0cent over 2020. The outlook is being supported by the low level of interest rates, recent tax cuts, ongoing spending on infrastructure, signs of stabilisation in some housing markets and a brighter outlook for the resources sector. The main domestic uncertainty continues to be the outlook for consumption, although a pick-up in growth in household disposable income and a stabilisation of the housing market are expected to support spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment has grown strongly over recent years and labour force participation is at a record high. There has, however, been little inroad into the spare capacity in the labour market recently, with the unemployment rate having risen slightly to 5.2\'a0per\'a0cent. The unemployment rate is expected to decline over the next couple of years to around 5\'a0per\'a0cent. Wages growth remains subdued and there is little upward pressure at present, with strong labour demand being met by more supply. Caps on wages growth are also affecting public-sector pay outcomes across the country. A further gradual lift in wages growth would be a welcome development. Taken together, recent labour market outcomes suggest that the Australian economy can sustain lower rates of unemployment and underemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent inflation data were broadly as expected and confirmed that inflation pressures remain subdued across much of the economy. Over the year to the June quarter, inflation was 1.6\'a0per\'a0cent in both headline and underlying terms. The central scenario remains for inflation to increase gradually, but it is likely to take longer than earlier expected for inflation to return to 2\'a0per\'a0cent. In both headline and underlying terms, inflation is expected to be a little under 2\'a0per\'a0cent over 2020 and a little above 2\'a0per\'a0cent over 2021.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in most housing markets remain soft, although there are some signs of a turnaround, especially in Sydney and Melbourne. Growth in housing credit remains low. Demand for credit by investors continues to be subdued and credit conditions, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, remain tight. Mortgage rates are at record lows and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 It is reasonable to expect that an extended period of low interest rates will be required in Australia to make progress in reducing unemployment and achieve more assured progress towards the inflation target. The Board will continue to monitor developments in the labour market closely and ease monetary policy further if needed to support sustainable growth in the economy and the achievement of the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25\'a0basis points to 1.00\'a0per\'a0cent. This follows a similar reduction at the Board's June meeting. This easing of monetary policy will support employment growth and provide greater confidence that inflation will be consistent with the medium-term target.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the global economy remains reasonable. However, the uncertainty generated by the trade and technology disputes is affecting investment and means that the risks to the global economy are tilted to the downside. In most advanced economies, inflation remains subdued, unemployment rates are low and wages growth has picked up. The slowdown in global trade has contributed to slower growth in Asia. In China, the authorities have taken steps to support the economy, while continuing to address risks in the financial system.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global financial conditions remain accommodative. The persistent downside risks to the global economy combined with subdued inflation have led to expectations of easing of monetary policy by the major central banks. Long-term government bond yields have declined further and are at record lows in a number of countries, including Australia. Bank funding costs in Australia have also declined, with money-market spreads having fully reversed the increases that took place last year. Borrowing rates for both businesses and households are at historically low levels. The Australian dollar is at the low end of its narrow range of recent times.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over the year to the March quarter, the Australian economy grew at a below-trend 1.8\'a0per\'a0cent. Consumption growth has been subdued, weighed down by a protracted period of low income growth and declining housing prices. Increased investment in infrastructure is providing an offset and a pick-up in activity in the resources sector is expected, partly in response to an increase in the prices of Australia's exports. The central scenario for the Australian economy remains reasonable, with growth around trend expected. The main domestic uncertainty continues to be the outlook for consumption, although a pick-up in growth in household disposable income is expected to support spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment growth has continued to be strong. Labour force participation is at a record level, the vacancy rate remains high and there are reports of skills shortages in some areas. There has, however, been little inroad into the spare capacity in the labour market recently, with the unemployment rate having risen slightly to 5.2\'a0per\'a0cent. The strong employment growth over the past year or so has led to a pick-up in wages growth in the private sector, although overall wages growth remains low. A further gradual lift in wages growth is still expected and this would be a welcome development. Taken together, these labour market outcomes suggest that the Australian economy can sustain lower rates of unemployment and underemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation pressures remain subdued across much of the economy. Inflation is still, however, anticipated to pick up, and will be boosted in the June quarter by increases in petrol prices. The central scenario remains for underlying inflation to be around 2\'a0per\'a0cent in 2020 and a little higher after that.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in most housing markets remain soft, although there are some tentative signs that prices are now stabilising in Sydney and Melbourne. Growth in housing credit has also stabilised recently. Demand for credit by investors continues to be subdued and credit conditions, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, remain tight. Mortgage rates are at record lows and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 Today's decision to lower the cash rate will help make further inroads into the spare capacity in the economy. It will assist with faster progress in reducing unemployment and achieve more assured progress towards the inflation target. The Board will continue to monitor developments in the labour market closely and adjust monetary policy if needed to support sustainable growth in the economy and the achievement of the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25\'a0basis points to 1.25\'a0per\'a0cent. The Board took this decision to support employment growth and provide greater confidence that inflation will be consistent with the medium-term target.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the global economy remains reasonable, although the downside risks stemming from the trade disputes have increased. Growth in international trade remains weak and the increased uncertainty is affecting investment intentions in a number of countries. In China, the authorities have taken steps to support the economy, while addressing risks in the financial system. In most advanced economies, inflation remains subdued, unemployment rates are low and wages growth has picked up.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global financial conditions remain accommodative. Long-term bond yields and risk premiums are low. In Australia, long-term bond yields are at historically low levels. Bank funding costs have also declined further, with money-market spreads having fully reversed the increases that took place last year. The Australian dollar has depreciated a little over the past few months and is at the low end of its narrow range of recent times.\cb1 \
\cb2 The central scenario remains for the Australian economy to grow by around 2\'be\'a0per\'a0cent in 2019 and 2020. This outlook is supported by increased investment in infrastructure and a pick-up in activity in the resources sector, partly in response to an increase in the prices of Australia's exports. The main domestic uncertainty continues to be the outlook for household consumption, which is being affected by a protracted period of low income growth and declining housing prices. Some pick-up in growth in household disposable income is expected and this should support consumption.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment growth has been strong over the past year, labour force participation has been increasing, the vacancy rate remains high and there are reports of skills shortages in some areas. Despite these developments, there has been little further inroads into the spare capacity in the labour market of late. The unemployment rate had been steady at around 5\'a0per\'a0cent for some months, but ticked up to 5.2\'a0per\'a0cent in April. The strong employment growth over the past year or so has led to a pick-up in wages growth in the private sector, although overall wages growth remains low. A further gradual lift in wages growth is expected and this would be a welcome development. Taken together, these labour market outcomes suggest that the Australian economy can sustain a lower rate of unemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent inflation outcomes have been lower than expected and suggest subdued inflationary pressures across much of the economy. Inflation is still however anticipated to pick up, and will be boosted in the June quarter by increases in petrol prices. The central scenario remains for underlying inflation to be 1\'be\'a0per\'a0cent this year, 2\'a0per\'a0cent in 2020 and a little higher after that.\cb1 \
\cb2 The adjustment in established housing markets is continuing, after the earlier large run-up in prices in some cities. Conditions remain soft, although in some markets the rate of price decline has slowed and auction clearance rates have increased. Growth in housing credit has also stabilised recently. Credit conditions have been tightened and the demand for credit by investors has been subdued for some time. Mortgage rates remain low and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 Today's decision to lower the cash rate will help make further inroads into the spare capacity in the economy. It will assist with faster progress in reducing unemployment and achieve more assured progress towards the inflation target. The Board will continue to monitor developments in the labour market closely and adjust monetary policy to support sustainable growth in the economy and the achievement of the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the global economy remains reasonable, although the risks are tilted to the downside. Growth in international trade has declined and investment intentions have softened in a number of countries. In China, the authorities have taken steps to support the economy, while addressing risks in the financial system. In most advanced economies, inflation remains subdued, unemployment rates are low and wages growth has picked up.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global financial conditions remain accommodative. Long-term bond yields are low, consistent with the subdued outlook for inflation, and equity markets have strengthened. Risk premiums also remain low. In Australia, long-term bond yields are at historically low levels and short-term bank funding costs have declined further. Some lending rates have declined recently, although the average mortgage rate paid is unchanged. The Australian dollar is at the low end of its narrow range of recent times.\cb1 \
\cb2 The central scenario is for the Australian economy to grow by around 2\'be\'a0per\'a0cent in 2019 and 2020. This outlook is supported by increased investment in infrastructure and a pick-up in activity in the resources sector, partly in response to an increase in the prices of Australia's exports. The main domestic uncertainty continues to be the outlook for household consumption, which is being affected by a protracted period of low income growth and declining housing prices. Some pick-up in growth in household disposable income is expected and this should support consumption.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian labour market remains strong. There has been a significant increase in employment, the vacancy rate remains high and there are reports of skills shortages in some areas. Despite these positive developments, there has been little further progress in reducing unemployment over the past six months. The unemployment rate has been broadly steady at around 5\'a0per\'a0cent over this time and is expected to remain around this level over the next year or so, before declining a little to 4\'be\'a0per\'a0cent in 2021. The strong employment growth over the past year or so has led to some pick-up in wages growth, which is a welcome development. Some further lift in wages growth is expected, although this is likely to be a gradual process.\cb1 \
\cb2 The adjustment in established housing markets is continuing, after the earlier large run-up in prices in some cities. Conditions remain soft and rent inflation remains low. Credit conditions for some borrowers have tightened over the past year or so. At the same time, the demand for credit by investors in the housing market has slowed noticeably as the dynamics of the housing market have changed. Growth in credit extended to owner-occupiers has eased over the past year. Mortgage rates remain low and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 The inflation data for the March quarter were noticeably lower than expected and suggest subdued inflationary pressures across much of the economy. Over the year, inflation was 1.3\'a0per\'a0cent and, in underlying terms, was 1.6\'a0per\'a0cent. Lower housing-related costs and a range of policy decisions affecting administered prices both contributed to this outcome. Looking forward, inflation is expected to pick up, but to do so only gradually. The central scenario is for underlying inflation to be 1\'be\'a0per\'a0cent this year, 2\'a0per\'a0cent in 2020 and a little higher after that. In headline terms, inflation is expected to be around 2\'a0per\'a0cent this year, boosted by the recent increase in petrol prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board judged that it was appropriate to hold the stance of policy unchanged at this meeting. In doing so, it recognised that there was still spare capacity in the economy and that a further improvement in the labour market was likely to be needed for inflation to be consistent with the target. Given this assessment, the Board will be paying close attention to developments in the labour market at its upcoming meetings.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the global economy remains reasonable, although growth has slowed and downside risks have increased. Growth in international trade has declined and investment intentions have softened in a number of countries. In China, the authorities have taken steps to ease financing conditions, partly in response to slower growth in the economy. Globally, headline inflation rates have moved lower following the earlier decline in oil prices, although core inflation has picked up in a number of economies. In most advanced economies, unemployment rates are low and wages growth has picked up.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global financial conditions remain accommodative and have eased recently. Long-term bond yields have declined further, consistent with the subdued outlook for inflation and lower expectations for future policy rates in a number of advanced economies. Across a range of markets, risk premiums remain low. Equity markets have also risen and are being supported by growth in corporate earnings. In Australia, long-term bond yields have fallen to historically low levels and short-term bank funding costs have moderated further. The Australian dollar has remained within its narrow range of recent times. While the terms of trade have increased over the past couple of years, they are expected to decline over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian labour market remains strong. There has been a significant increase in employment and the unemployment rate is at 4.9\'a0per\'a0cent. The vacancy rate remains high and there are reports of skills shortages in some areas. The stronger labour market has led to some pick-up in wages growth, which is a welcome development. Continued improvement in the labour market is expected to see some further lift in wages growth over time, although this is still expected to be a gradual process.\cb1 \
\cb2 The GDP data paint a softer picture of the economy than do the labour market data. GDP rose by just 0.2\'a0per\'a0cent in the December quarter to be 2.3\'a0per\'a0cent higher over 2018. Growth in household consumption is being affected by the protracted period of weakness in real household disposable income and the adjustment in housing markets. The drought in parts of the country has also affected farm output. Offsetting these factors, higher levels of spending on public infrastructure and an upswing in private investment are supporting the growth outlook, as is the steady growth in employment.\cb1 \
\cb2 The adjustment in established housing markets is continuing, after the earlier large run-up in prices in some cities. Conditions remain soft and rent inflation remains low. Credit conditions for some borrowers have tightened a little further over the past year or so. At the same time, the demand for credit by investors in the housing market has slowed noticeably as the dynamics of the housing market have changed. Growth in credit extended to owner-occupiers has eased. Mortgage rates remain low and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low and stable. Underlying inflation is expected to pick up gradually over the next couple of years, although this has been taking a little longer than earlier expected. The central scenario is for underlying inflation to be 2\'a0per\'a0cent this year and 2\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent in 2020. In the near term, headline inflation is expected to decline because of lower petrol prices earlier in the year, while underlying inflation is expected to remain broadly stable.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that it was appropriate to hold the stance of policy unchanged at this meeting. The Board will continue to monitor developments and set monetary policy to support sustainable growth in the economy and achieve the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy grew above trend in 2018, although it slowed in the second half of the year. The slower pace of growth has continued into 2019. The outlook for the global economy remains reasonable, although downside risks have increased. The trade tensions remain a source of uncertainty. In China, the authorities have taken further steps to ease financing conditions, partly in response to slower growth in the economy. Globally, headline inflation rates have moved lower following the earlier decline in oil prices, although core inflation has picked up in a number of economies. In most advanced economies, unemployment rates are low and wages growth has picked up.\cb1 \
\cb2 Overall, global financial conditions remain accommodative. They have eased recently after tightening around the turn of year. Long-term bond yields have declined, consistent with the subdued outlook for inflation and lower expectations for future policy rates in a number of advanced economies. Also, equity markets have risen, supported by growth in corporate earnings. In Australia, short-term bank funding costs have moderated, although they remain a little higher than a few years ago. The Australian dollar has remained within the narrow range of recent times. While the terms of trade have increased over the past couple of years, they are expected to decline over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian labour market remains strong. There has been a significant increase in employment and the unemployment rate is at 5\'a0per\'a0cent. A further decline in the unemployment rate to 4\'be\'a0per\'a0cent is expected over the next couple of years. The vacancy rate is high and there are reports of skills shortages in some areas. The stronger labour market has led to some pick-up in wages growth, which is a welcome development. The improvement in the labour market should see some further lift in wages growth over time, although this is still expected to be a gradual process.\cb1 \
\cb2 Other indicators suggest growth in the Australian economy slowed over the second half of 2018. The central scenario is still for the Australian economy to grow by around 3 per cent this year. The growth outlook is being supported by rising business investment, higher levels of spending on public infrastructure and increased employment. The main domestic uncertainty continues to be the strength of household consumption in the context of weak growth in household income and falling housing prices in some cities. A pick-up in growth in household income is nonetheless expected to support household spending over the next year.\cb1 \
\cb2 The adjustment in the Sydney and Melbourne housing markets is continuing, after the earlier large run-up in prices. Conditions remain soft in both markets and rent inflation remains low. Credit conditions for some borrowers have tightened a little further over the past year or so. At the same time, the demand for credit by investors in the housing market has slowed noticeably as the dynamics of the housing market have changed. Growth in credit extended to owner-occupiers has eased further. Mortgage rates remain low and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low and stable. Underlying inflation is expected to pick up over the next couple of years, with the pick-up likely to be gradual and to take a little longer than earlier expected. The central scenario is for underlying inflation to be 2\'a0per\'a0cent this year and 2\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent in 2020. Headline inflation is expected to decline in the near term because of lower petrol prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy grew above trend in 2018, although it slowed in the second half of the year. Unemployment rates in most advanced economies are low. The outlook for global growth remains reasonable, although downside risks have increased. The trade tensions are affecting global trade and some investment decisions. Growth in the Chinese economy has continued to slow, with the authorities easing policy while continuing to pay close attention to the risks in the financial sector. Globally, headline inflation rates have moved lower due to the decline in oil prices, although core inflation has picked up in a number of economies.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions in the advanced economies tightened in late 2018, but remain accommodative. Equity prices declined and credit spreads increased, but these moves have since been partly reversed. Market participants no longer expect a further tightening of monetary policy in the United States. Government bond yields have declined in most countries, including Australia. The Australian dollar has remained within the narrow range of recent times. The terms of trade have increased over the past couple of years, but are expected to decline over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 The central scenario is for the Australian economy to grow by around 3\'a0per\'a0cent this year and by a little less in 2020 due to slower growth in exports of resources. The growth outlook is being supported by rising business investment and higher levels of spending on public infrastructure. As is the case globally, some downside risks have increased. GDP growth in the September quarter was weaker than expected. This was largely due to slow growth in household consumption and income, although the consumption data have been volatile and subject to revision over recent quarters. Growth in household income has been low over recent years, but is expected to pick up and support household spending. The main domestic uncertainty remains around the outlook for household spending and the effect of falling housing prices in some cities.\cb1 \
\cb2 The housing markets in Sydney and Melbourne are going through a period of adjustment, after an earlier large run-up in prices. Conditions have weakened further in both markets and rent inflation remains low. Credit conditions for some borrowers are tighter than they have been. At the same time, the demand for credit by investors in the housing market has slowed noticeably as the dynamics of the housing market have changed. Growth in credit extended to owner-occupiers has eased to an annualised pace of 5\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent. Mortgage rates remain low and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market remains strong, with the unemployment rate at 5\'a0per\'a0cent. A further decline in the unemployment rate to 4\'be\'a0per\'a0cent is expected over the next couple of years. The vacancy rate is high and there are reports of skills shortages in some areas. The stronger labour market has led to some pick-up in wages growth, which is a welcome development. The improvement in the labour market should see some further lift in wages growth over time, although this is still expected to be a gradual process.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low and stable. Over 2018, CPI inflation was 1.8\'a0per\'a0cent and in underlying terms inflation was 1\'be\'a0per\'a0cent. Underlying inflation is expected to pick up over the next couple of years, with the pick-up likely to be gradual and to take a little longer than earlier expected. The central scenario is for underlying inflation to be 2\'a0per\'a0cent this year and 2\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent in 2020. Headline inflation is expected to decline in the near term because of lower petrol prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the current policy settings, including the targets of 10\'a0basis points for the cash rate and the yield on 3-year Australian Government bonds, as well as the parameters of the Term Funding Facility and the government bond purchase program.\cb1 \
\cb2 Globally, the news has been mixed recently. On the one hand, infection rates have risen sharply in Europe and the United States and the recoveries in these economies have lost momentum. On the other hand, there has been positive news on the vaccine front, which should support the recovery of the global economy. The recovery is also dependent on ongoing support from both fiscal and monetary policy. Hours worked in most countries remain noticeably below pre-pandemic levels and inflation is low and below central bank targets.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions remain accommodative around the world, with bond yields near historically low levels. The positive news on vaccines has boosted equity markets, lowered risk premiums and supported further increases in some commodity prices. The improvement in risk sentiment has also been associated with a depreciation of the US\'a0dollar and an appreciation of the Australian dollar.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economic recovery is under way and recent data have generally been better than expected. This is good news, but the recovery is still expected to be uneven and drawn out and it remains dependent on significant policy support. In the RBA's central scenario, it will not be until the end of 2021 that the level of GDP reaches the level attained at the end of 2019. In the central scenario, GDP is expected to grow by around 5\'a0per\'a0cent next year and 4\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment growth was again strong in October, although the unemployment rate increased to 7\'a0per\'a0cent as more people rejoined the workforce. A further rise in the unemployment rate is still expected, as businesses restructure in response to the pandemic and more people rejoin the workforce. The unemployment rate is forecast to decline next year, but only slowly and still to be around 6\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of 2022.\cb1 \
\cb2 The extended period of high unemployment and excess capacity is expected to result in subdued increases in wages and prices over coming years. In the September quarter, the Wage Price Index increased by just 0.1\'a0per\'a0cent, to be 1.4\'a0per\'a0cent higher over the year. In underlying terms, inflation is forecast to be 1\'a0per\'a0cent in 2021 and 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent in 2022.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board views addressing the high rate of unemployment as an important national priority. Its policy decisions over recent months will help here. These decisions are complementary to the significant steps taken by Australian governments to support jobs and economic growth.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's policy response has lowered interest rates across the yield curve, which will assist the recovery by: lowering financing costs for borrowers; contributing to a lower exchange rate than otherwise; and supporting asset prices and balance sheets. The Term Funding Facility is also supporting the supply of credit to businesses. To date, authorised deposit-taking institutions have drawn down $84\'a0billion under this facility and have access to a further $105\'a0billion. Over the past month, the Bank has bought $19\'a0billion of government bonds under the bond purchase program and a further $5\'a0billion of Australian government securities in support of the 3-year yield target. Since the start of this year, the RBA's balance sheet has increased by around $130\'a0billion.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given the outlook for both employment and inflation, monetary and fiscal support will be required for some time. For its part, the Board will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. For this to occur, wages growth will have to be materially higher than it is currently. This will require significant gains in employment and a return to a tight labour market. Given the outlook, the Board is not expecting to increase the cash rate for at least 3\'a0years. The Board will keep the size of the bond purchase program under review, particularly in light of the evolving outlook for jobs and inflation. The Board is prepared to do more if necessary.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided on a package of further measures to support job creation and the recovery of the Australian economy from the pandemic. With Australia facing a period of high unemployment, the Reserve Bank is committed to doing what it can to support the creation of jobs. Encouragingly, the recent economic data have been a bit better than expected and the near-term outlook is better than it was three months ago. Even so, the recovery is still expected to be bumpy and drawn out and the outlook remains dependent on successful containment of the virus.\cb1 \
\cb2 The elements of today's package are as follows:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a reduction in the cash rate target to 0.1\'a0per\'a0cent\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a reduction in the target for the yield on the 3-year Australian Government bond to around 0.1\'a0per\'a0cent\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a reduction in the interest rate on new drawings under the Term Funding Facility to 0.1\'a0per\'a0cent\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a reduction in the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances to zero\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
the purchase of $100\'a0billion of government bonds of maturities of around 5\'a0to 10\'a0years over the next six months.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Under the program to purchase longer-dated bonds, the Bank will buy bonds issued by the Australian Government and by the states and territories, with an expected 80/20\'a0split. These bonds will be bought in the secondary market through regular auctions, with the first auction to be held this Thursday for Australian Government securities. Further details of the auctions are provided in the accompanying market notice.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank remains prepared to purchase bonds in whatever quantity is required to achieve the 3-year yield target. Any bonds purchased to support this target would be in addition to the $100\'a0billion bond purchase program.\cb1 \
\cb2 At today's meeting, the Board also considered an updated set of economic forecasts. The global economy has been recovering from the initial virus outbreaks, with the recovery most advanced in China. Even so, output in most countries remains well short of pre-pandemic levels and recent virus outbreaks pose a downside risk to the outlook, particularly in Europe.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economic recovery is under way and positive GDP growth is now expected in the September quarter, despite the restrictions in Victoria. It will, however, take some time to reach the pre-pandemic level of output. In the central scenario, GDP growth is expected to be around 6\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to June 2021 and 4\'a0per\'a0cent in 2022. The unemployment rate is expected to remain high, but to peak at a little below 8\'a0per\'a0cent, rather than the 10\'a0per\'a0cent expected previously. At the end of 2022, the unemployment rate is forecast to be around 6\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 This extended period of high unemployment and excess capacity is expected to result in subdued increases in wages and prices over coming years. In underlying terms, inflation is forecast to be 1\'a0per\'a0cent in 2021 and 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent in 2022. In the most recent quarter, year-ended CPI inflation was 0.7\'a0per\'a0cent and, in underlying terms, inflation was 1\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board views addressing the high rate of unemployment as an important national priority. Today's policy package, together with the earlier measures by the RBA, will help in this effort. The RBA's response is complementary to the significant steps taken by the Australian Government, including in the recent budget, to support jobs and economic growth.\cb1 \
\cb2 The combination of the RBA's bond purchases and lower interest rates across the yield curve will assist the recovery by: lowering financing costs for borrowers; contributing to a lower exchange rate than otherwise; and supporting asset prices and balance sheets. At the same time, the RBA's Term Funding Facility is contributing to low funding costs and supporting the supply of credit to the economy. To date, authorised deposit-taking institutions have drawn $83\'a0billion under this facility and have access to a further $104\'a0billion.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given the outlook for both employment and inflation, monetary and fiscal support will be required for some time. For its part, the Board will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. For this to occur, wages growth will have to be materially higher than it is currently. This will require significant gains in employment and a return to a tight labour market. Given the outlook, the Board is not expecting to increase the cash rate for at least three years. The Board will keep the size of the bond purchase program under review, particularly in light of the evolving outlook for jobs and inflation. The Board is prepared to do more if necessary.\cb1 \
\cb2 There will be a press conference at 4:00pm AEDT today.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the current policy settings, including the targets for the cash rate, the yield on 3-year Australian Government bonds, and the parameters for the expanded Term Funding Facility.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is gradually recovering after a severe contraction due to the pandemic. However, the recovery is uneven and its continuation is dependent on containment of the virus. While infection rates have declined in some countries, they have increased in others. The recovery is most advanced in China, where conditions have improved substantially over recent months. Globally, inflation remains very low and below central bank targets.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions remain accommodative around the world and supportive of the economic recovery. Financial market volatility is low and the prices of many assets have risen substantially despite the high level of uncertainty about the economic outlook. Bond yields are at historically low levels, as are interest rates for most businesses and households. The Australian dollar remains just a little below its peak of the past couple of years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy experienced a sharp contraction in the June quarter, with output falling by 7\'a0per\'a0cent. As difficult as this was, the decline in output was smaller than in most other countries and smaller than was earlier expected. A recovery is now under way in most of Australia, although the second-wave outbreak in Victoria has resulted in a further contraction in output there. The national recovery is likely to be bumpy and uneven and it will be some time before the level of output returns to its end 2019 level.\cb1 \
\cb2 Labour market conditions have improved somewhat over the past few months and the unemployment rate is likely to peak at a lower rate than earlier expected. Even so, unemployment and underemployment are likely to remain high for an extended period. Wage and inflation pressures remain very subdued. The Bank will publish a full set of updated forecasts next month.\cb1 \
\cb2 Over the past six months, the Australian economy has been supported by a substantial easing of fiscal policy. Public sector balance sheets in Australia are in good shape, which allows for continued support, with the Australian Government budget to be announced this evening. Both fiscal and monetary support will be required for some time given the outlook for the economy and the prospect of high unemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's policy package is working as expected and is underpinning very low borrowing costs and the supply of credit to households and businesses. There is a very high level of liquidity in the Australian financial system and borrowing costs are at record lows. $81\'a0billion of low-cost funding for authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADIs) has been advanced under the initial allowance of the Term Funding Facility. ADIs currently have access to a further $120\'a0billion under this facility. As this is drawn down, there will be a further very significant expansion of the Reserve Bank's balance sheet.\cb1 \
\cb2 Government bond markets are functioning well, alongside a significant increase in issuance. Bond yields are around record lows. Early in September, the Bank bought a further $2\'a0billion of Australian Government Securities (AGS) in support of its 3-year yield target, bringing total purchases of government securities since March to $63\'a0billion. Over the past couple of weeks, 3-year yields have fallen to around 18\'a0basis points as markets price in some probability of further monetary policy easing.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to do what it can to support jobs, incomes and businesses in Australia. Its actions, including last month's decision to expand the Term Funding Facility, are keeping funding costs low and assisting with the supply of credit. The Board views addressing the high rate of unemployment as an important national priority. It will maintain highly accommodative policy settings as long as is required and will not increase the cash rate target until progress is being made towards full employment and it is confident that inflation will be sustainably within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target band. The Board continues to consider how additional monetary easing could support jobs as the economy opens up further.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the targets for the cash rate and the yield on 3-year Australian Government bonds of 25\'a0basis points. It also decided to increase the size of the Term Funding Facility and make the facility available for longer.\cb1 \
\cb2 Under the expanded Term Funding Facility, authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADIs) will have access to additional funding, equivalent to 2\'a0per\'a0cent of their outstanding credit, at a fixed rate of 25\'a0basis points for three years. ADIs will be able to draw on this extra funding up until the end of June 2021. This extension will ensure that all ADIs continue to have access to the Term Funding Facility after the end of September, when the window for drawings under the initial allowance of 3\'a0per\'a0cent of outstanding credit closes. Additional allowances associated with an ADI's growth of business credit will now also be available until the end of June 2021. Further details are provided in the accompanying notice.\cb1 \
\cb2 To date, ADIs have drawn $52\'a0billion under the Term Funding Facility and further drawings are expected over coming weeks. Today's change brings the total amount available under this facility to around $200\'a0billion. This will help keep interest rates low for borrowers and support the provision of credit by providing ADIs greater confidence about continued access to low-cost funding.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Term Funding Facility and the other elements of the Bank's mid-March package are helping to support the Australian economy. There is a very high level of liquidity in the Australian financial system and borrowing rates are at historical lows. Government bond markets are functioning normally, alongside a significant increase in issuance. Over the past month, the Bank bought a further $10\'a0billion of Australian Government Securities (AGS) in support of its 3-year yield target of 25\'a0basis points. Since March, the Bank has bought a total of $61\'a0billion of government securities. Further purchases will be undertaken as necessary. The yield target will remain in place until progress is being made towards the goals for full employment and inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 Globally, an uneven economic recovery is under way after a very severe contraction in the first half of 2020. The future path of that recovery is highly dependent on containment of the virus. High or rising infection rates have seen a recent loss of growth momentum in some economies. By contrast, in China, economic growth has been relatively strong. In financial markets, volatility is low and the prices of many assets have risen substantially despite the high level of uncertainty about the economic outlook. Bond yields remain at historically low levels. The US\'a0dollar has depreciated against most currencies over recent months. Given this and higher commodity prices, the Australian dollar has appreciated, to be around its highest level in nearly two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economy is going through a very difficult period and is experiencing the biggest contraction since the 1930s. As difficult as this is, the downturn is not as severe as earlier expected and a recovery is now under way in most of Australia. This recovery is, however, likely to be both uneven and bumpy, with the coronavirus outbreak in Victoria having a major effect on the Victorian economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Employment increased in June and July, although unemployment and underemployment remain high. The virus outbreak in Victoria and subdued growth in aggregate demand more broadly mean that it is likely to be some months before a meaningful recovery in the labour market is under way. In the Bank's central scenario, the unemployment rate rises to around 10\'a0per\'a0cent later in 2020 and then declines gradually to be still around 7\'a0per\'a0cent in two years' time.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wage and prices pressures remain subdued and this is likely to continue for some time. Inflation is expected to average between 1\'a0and 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over the next couple of years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The economy is being supported by the substantial, coordinated and unprecedented policy easing over the past six months. Fiscal policy is playing an important role. Public sector balance sheets in Australia are in good shape, which allows for continued support. Indeed, fiscal and monetary support will be required for some time given the outlook for the economy and the prospect of high unemployment. In addition, support for the recovery is being provided by Australia's financial institutions, which also have strong balance sheets and access to high levels of liquidity.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to do what it can to support jobs, incomes and businesses in Australia. Its actions, including today's extension of the Term Funding Facility, are keeping funding costs low and assisting with the supply of credit to households and businesses. The Board will maintain highly accommodative settings as long as is required and continues to consider how further monetary measures could support the recovery. It will not increase the cash rate target until progress is being made towards full employment and it is confident that inflation will be sustainably within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target band.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the current policy settings, including the targets for the cash rate and the yield on 3-year Australian Government bonds of 25\'a0basis points.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is experiencing a severe contraction as countries seek to contain the coronavirus. Even though the worst of this contraction has now passed, the outlook remains highly uncertain. The recovery is expected to be only gradual and its shape is dependent on containment of the virus. While infection rates have declined in some countries, they are still very high and rising in others. International trade remains weak, although there has been a strong recovery in industrial activity in China over recent months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Globally, conditions in financial markets remain accommodative. Volatility has declined and there have been large raisings of both debt and equity. The prices of many assets have risen substantially despite the high level of uncertainty about the economic outlook. Bond yields remain at historically low levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's mid-March package of support for the Australian economy is working as expected. There is a very high level of liquidity in the Australian financial system and borrowing rates are at historical lows. Authorised deposit-taking institutions are continuing to draw on the Term Funding Facility, with total drawings to date of around $29\'a0billion. Further use of this facility is expected over coming months.\cb1 \
\cb2 Government bond markets are functioning normally alongside a significant increase in issuance. The yield on 3-year Australian Government Securities (AGS) has been consistent with the target of around 25\'a0basis points. The yield has, however, been a little higher than 25\'a0basis points over recent weeks. Given this, tomorrow the Bank will purchase AGS in the secondary market to ensure that the yield on 3-year bonds remains consistent with the target. Further purchases will be undertaken as necessary. The yield target will remain in place until progress is being made towards the goals for full employment and inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is going through a very difficult period and is experiencing the biggest contraction since the 1930s. As difficult as this is, the downturn is not as severe as earlier expected and a recovery is now underway in most of Australia. This recovery is, however, likely to be both uneven and bumpy, with the coronavirus outbreak in Victoria having a major effect on the Victorian economy. Given the uncertainties about the overall outlook, the Board considered a range of scenarios at its meeting. In the baseline scenario, output falls by 6\'a0per\'a0cent over 2020 and then grows by 5\'a0per\'a0cent over the following year. In this scenario, the unemployment rate rises to around 10\'a0per\'a0cent later in 2020 due to further job losses in Victoria and more people elsewhere in Australia looking for jobs. Over the following couple of years, the unemployment rate is expected to decline gradually to around 7\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board also considered other scenarios. A stronger recovery is possible if progress is made in containing the virus in the near future. This progress would support an improvement in confidence and a less cautious approach by households and businesses to their spending. On the other hand, if Australia and other countries were to experience further widespread lockdowns, the recovery in both output and the labour market would be delayed. Details on these scenarios will be provided in the Statement on Monetary Policy on 7\'a0August.\cb1 \
\cb2 In each of the scenarios considered by the Board, inflation remains below 2\'a0per\'a0cent over the next couple of years. In the most recent quarter, CPI inflation fell to \'960.3\'a0per\'a0cent in year-ended terms, reflecting lower oil prices and the effects of various policy measures, including the decisions to make child care and some pre-school free for a period. Inflation is expected to return to positive territory in the current quarter. Beyond that, given the ongoing spare capacity in the economy, inflation is expected to average between 1\'a0and 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over the next couple of years.\cb1 \
\cb2 As Australians deal with the coronavirus, the economy is being supported by the substantial, coordinated and unprecedented easing of fiscal and monetary policy. The Australian Government's recent announcement that various income support measures will be extended is a welcome development and will support aggregate demand. It is likely that fiscal and monetary stimulus will be required for some time given the outlook for the economy and the labour market.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to do what it can to support jobs, incomes and businesses in Australia. Its actions are keeping funding costs low and assisting with the supply of credit to households and businesses. This accommodative approach will be maintained as long as it is required. The Board will not increase the cash rate target until progress is being made towards full employment and it is confident that inflation will be sustainably within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target band.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the current policy settings, including the targets for the cash rate and the yield on 3-year Australian Government bonds of 25\'a0basis points.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy has experienced a severe downturn as countries seek to contain the coronavirus. Many people have lost their jobs and there has been a sharp rise in unemployment. Leading indicators have generally picked up recently, suggesting the worst of the global economic contraction has now passed. Despite this, the outlook remains uncertain and the recovery is expected to be bumpy and will depend upon containment of the coronavirus. Over the past month, infection rates have declined in many countries, but they are still very high and rising in others.\cb1 \
\cb2 Globally, conditions in financial markets have improved. Volatility has declined and there have been large raisings of both debt and equity. The prices of many assets have risen substantially despite the high level of uncertainty about the economic outlook. Bond yields remain at historically low levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the government bond markets are operating effectively and the yield on 3-year Australian Government Securities (AGS) is at the target of around 25\'a0basis points. Given these developments, the Bank has not purchased government bonds for some time, with total purchases to date of around $50\'a0billion. The Bank is prepared to scale-up its bond purchases again and will do whatever is necessary to ensure bond markets remain functional and to achieve the yield target for 3-year AGS. The yield target will remain in place until progress is being made towards the goals for full employment and inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's market operations are continuing to support a high level of liquidity in the Australian financial system. Authorised deposit-taking institutions are continuing to draw on the Term Funding Facility, with total drawings to date of around $15\'a0billion. Further use of this facility is expected over coming months.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is going through a very difficult period and is experiencing the biggest contraction since the 1930s. Since March, an unprecedented 800,000\'a0people have lost their jobs, with many others retaining their job only because of government and other support programs. Conditions have, however, stabilised recently and the downturn has been less severe than earlier expected. While total hours worked in Australia continued to decline in May, the decline was considerably smaller than in April and less than previously thought likely. There has also been a pick-up in retail spending in response to the decline in infections and the easing of restrictions in most of the country.\cb1 \
\cb2 Notwithstanding the signs of a gradual improvement, the nature and speed of the economic recovery remains highly uncertain. Uncertainty about the health situation and the future strength of the economy is making many households and businesses cautious, and this is affecting consumption and investment plans. The pandemic is also prompting many firms to reconsider their business models. As some businesses rehire workers as demand returns, others are restructuring their operations.\cb1 \
\cb2 The substantial, coordinated and unprecedented easing of fiscal and monetary policy in Australia is helping the economy through this difficult period. It is likely that fiscal and monetary support will be required for some time.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to do what it can to support jobs, incomes and businesses and to make sure that Australia is well placed for the recovery. Its actions are keeping funding costs low and supporting the supply of credit to households and businesses. This accommodative approach will be maintained as long as it is required. The Board will not increase the cash rate target until progress is being made towards full employment and it is confident that inflation will be sustainably within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target band.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the current policy settings, including the targets for the cash rate and the yield on 3-year Australian Government bonds of 25\'a0basis points.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is experiencing a severe downturn as countries seek to contain the coronavirus. Many people have lost their jobs and there has been a sharp rise in unemployment. Over the past month, infection rates have declined in many countries and there has been some easing of restrictions on activity. If this continues, a recovery in the global economy will get under way, supported by both the large fiscal packages and the significant easing in monetary policies.\cb1 \
\cb2 Globally, conditions in financial markets have continued to improve, although conditions in some markets remain fragile. Volatility has declined and credit markets have progressively opened to more firms. Bond rates remain at historically low levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the government bond markets are operating effectively and the yield on 3-year Australian Government Securities (AGS) is at the target of around 25\'a0basis points. Given these developments, the Bank has purchased government bonds on only one occasion since the previous Board meeting, with total purchases to date of around $50\'a0billion. The Bank is prepared to scale-up its bond purchases again and will do whatever is necessary to ensure bond markets remain functional and to achieve the yield target for 3-year AGS. The target will remain in place until progress is being made towards the goals for full employment and inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's market operations are continuing to support a high level of liquidity in the Australian financial system. Authorised deposit-taking institutions are making use of the Term Funding Facility, with total drawings to date of around $6\'a0billion. Further use of this facility is expected over coming months.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is going through a very difficult period and is experiencing the biggest economic contraction since the 1930s. In April, total hours worked declined by an unprecedented 9\'a0per\'a0cent and more than 600,000\'a0people lost their jobs, with many more people working zero hours. Household spending weakened very considerably and investment plans are being deferred or cancelled.\cb1 \
\cb2 Notwithstanding these developments, it is possible that the depth of the downturn will be less than earlier expected. The rate of new infections has declined significantly and some restrictions have been eased earlier than was previously thought likely. And there are signs that hours worked stabilised in early May, after the earlier very sharp decline. There has also been a pick-up in some forms of consumer spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 However, the outlook, including the nature and speed of the expected recovery, remains highly uncertain and the pandemic is likely to have long-lasting effects on the economy. In the period immediately ahead, much will depend on the confidence that people and businesses have about the health situation and their own finances.\cb1 \
\cb2 The substantial, coordinated and unprecedented easing of fiscal and monetary policy in Australia is helping the economy through this difficult period. It is likely that this fiscal and monetary support will be required for some time.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to do what it can to support jobs, incomes and businesses and to make sure that Australia is well placed for the recovery. Its actions are keeping funding costs low and supporting the supply of credit to households and businesses. This accommodative approach will be maintained as long as it is required. The Board will not increase the cash rate target until progress is being made towards full employment and it is confident that inflation will be sustainably within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target band.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the current policy settings, including the targets for the cash rate and the yield on 3-year Australian Government bonds of 25\'a0basis points.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is experiencing a severe downturn as countries seek to contain the coronavirus. Many people have lost their jobs and a sharp rise in unemployment is occurring. At the same time, the containment measures have reduced infection rates in a number of countries. If this continues, a recovery in the global economy will start later this year, supported by both the large fiscal packages and the significant easing in monetary policies.\cb1 \
\cb2 Globally, financial markets are working more effectively than they were a month ago, although conditions have not completely normalised. This improvement reflects both the decline in infection rates and the substantial measures undertaken by central banks and fiscal authorities. Credit markets have progressively opened to more firms and long-term bond rates remain at historically low levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the functioning of the government bond markets has improved and the yield on 3-year Australian Government Securities (AGS) is at the target of around 25\'a0basis points. Given these developments, the Bank has scaled back the size and frequency of bond purchases, which to date have totalled around $50\'a0billion. The Bank is prepared to scale-up these purchases again and will do whatever is necessary to ensure bond markets remain functional and to achieve the yield target for 3-year AGS. The target will remain in place until progress is being made towards the goals for full employment and inflation.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's daily open market operations are continuing to support credit and maintain low funding costs in the economy. To assist with the smooth functioning of Australia's capital markets, the Bank has decided to broaden the range of eligible collateral for these operations to include Australian dollar securities issued by non-bank corporations with an investment grade credit rating. More details are provided in the accompanying market notice.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is going through a very difficult period and there is considerable uncertainty about the outlook. Reflecting this uncertainty, the Board considered a range of scenarios at its meeting. In the baseline scenario, output falls by around 10\'a0per\'a0cent over the first half of 2020 and by around 6\'a0per\'a0cent over the year as a whole. This is followed by a bounce-back of 6\'a0per\'a0cent next year.\cb1 \
\cb2 There has been a substantial, coordinated and unprecedented fiscal and monetary response in Australia to the coronavirus. Without this response, the outlook would have been even more challenging. These policies are supporting the economy right now and will help when the recovery comes. They are supporting people's incomes, maintaining the important connections between businesses and their employees, underpinning the supply of credit to businesses and households, and keeping borrowing costs low. The deferral of loan and other payments is helping people manage their cash flows. The Australian banking system, with its strong buffers of capital and liquidity, is also helping the economy traverse this difficult period.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the baseline scenario considered by the Board, the unemployment rate peaks at around 10\'a0per\'a0cent over coming months and is still above 7\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of next year. A lower unemployment rate than this is possible if the reduction in labour demand is accompanied by a larger reduction in average hours worked, rather than by people losing their jobs.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board also considered other scenarios. A stronger economic recovery is possible if there is further substantial progress in containing the coronavirus in the near term and there is a faster return to normal economic activity. On the other hand, if the lifting of restrictions is delayed or the restrictions need to be reimposed or household and business confidence remains low, the outcomes would be even more challenging than those in the baseline scenario. These scenarios will be discussed in the Statement on Monetary Policy, to be released later this week.\cb1 \
\cb2 In the various scenarios considered by the Board, inflation remains below 2\'a0per\'a0cent over the next few years. In the March quarter just passed, CPI inflation rose to 2.2\'a0per\'a0cent, but it is expected to turn negative temporarily in the June quarter, due to falls in oil prices, the introduction of free child care and deferrals of various price increases. Further out, in the baseline scenario inflation is 1\'a0to 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent in 2021 and gradually picks up further from there.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given this outlook, the Bank will maintain its efforts to keep funding costs low in Australia and credit available to households and businesses. The Board is committed to do what it can to support jobs, incomes and businesses during this difficult period and to make sure that Australia is well placed for the expected recovery. The Board will not increase the cash rate target until progress is being made towards full employment and it is confident that inflation will be sustainably within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target band.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board reaffirmed the targets for the cash rate and the yield on 3-year Australian government bonds of 25\'a0basis points, as well as the other elements of the package announced on 19\'a0March 2020.\cb1 \
\cb2 The coronavirus remains first and foremost a very major public health issue, but it is also having very significant effects on economies and financial systems around the world. Many countries are expected to experience large economic contractions as a consequence of the public health response. Large increases in unemployment are also expected. Once the virus is contained, a recovery in the global economy is expected, with the recovery supported by both the large fiscal packages and the significant easing in monetary policy that has taken place.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial market volatility has been historically high and many markets around the world have been dislocated. There are, however, some signs that markets are working more effectively than they were a few weeks ago. This improvement partly reflects the substantial measures undertaken by central banks.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the yield on 3-year Australian Government bonds is now around the target level set by the Board and the functioning of the government bond markets has improved. The Bank will do what is necessary to achieve the 3-year yield target, with the target expected to remain in place until progress is being made towards the goals for full employment and inflation. Since this target was introduced, the Bank has bought around $36\'a0billion of government bonds in secondary markets, including bonds issued by the states and territories. The Bank will continue to promote the smooth functioning of these important markets. If conditions continue to improve, though, it is likely that smaller and less frequent purchases of government bonds will be required.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank has injected substantial liquidity into the financial system through its daily open market operations to support credit and maintain low funding costs in the economy. It will continue to ensure that the financial system has sufficient liquidity. Given the substantial liquidity that is already in the system and the commencement of the Term Funding Facility, the daily open market operations are likely to be on a smaller scale in the near term. Operations at longer terms will continue, but the frequency of these operations will be adjusted as necessary according to market conditions.\cb1 \
\cb2 The first drawings under the Term Funding Facility were made yesterday. This facility will help lower funding costs across the banking system and provides an incentive for lenders to support credit to businesses, especially small and medium-sized businesses. Authorised deposit-taking institutions have access to at least $90\'a0billion in funding under this facility.\cb1 \
\cb2 There is considerable uncertainty about the near-term outlook for the Australian economy. Much will depend on the success of the efforts to contain the virus and how long the social distancing measures need to remain in place. A very large economic contraction is, however, expected to be recorded in the June quarter and the unemployment rate is expected to increase to its highest level for many years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The coordinated monetary and fiscal response, together with complementary measures taken by Australia's banks, will soften the expected contraction and help ensure that the economy is well placed to recover once the health crisis has passed and restrictions are removed. These various responses are providing considerable support to Australian households and businesses through what is a very difficult period. The Australian financial system is resilient. It is well capitalised and in a strong liquidity position, with these financial buffers available to be drawn down if required to support the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to doing what it can to support jobs, incomes and businesses as Australia deals with the coronavirus. The comprehensive policy package announced last month will also support the expected recovery. The Board will not increase the cash rate target until progress is being made towards full employment and it is confident that inflation will be sustainably within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target band.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board wishes the best to all Australians as our country deals with this very difficult situation.\
\
The coronavirus is first and foremost a public health issue, but it is also having a very major impact on the economy and the financial system. As the virus has spread, countries have restricted the movement of people across borders and have implemented social distancing measures, including restricting movements within countries and within cities. The result has been major disruptions to economic activity across the world. This is likely to remain the case for some time yet as efforts continue to contain the virus.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial market volatility has been very high. Equity prices have experienced large declines. Government bond yields have declined to historic lows. However, the functioning of major government bond markets has been impaired, which has disrupted other markets given their important role as a financial benchmark. Funding markets are open to only the highest quality borrowers.\cb1 \
\cb2 The primary response to the virus is to manage the health of the population, but other arms of policy, including monetary and fiscal policy, play an important role in reducing the economic and financial disruption resulting from the virus.\cb1 \
\cb2 At some point, the virus will be contained and the Australian economy will recover. In the interim, a priority for the Reserve Bank is to support jobs, incomes and businesses, so that when the health crisis recedes, the country is well placed to recover strongly.\cb1 \
\cb2 At a meeting yesterday, the Reserve Bank Board agreed to the following comprehensive package to support the Australian economy through this challenging period:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls9\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A reduction in the cash rate target to 0.25\'a0per\'a0cent. \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 The Board will not increase the cash rate target until progress is being made towards full employment and it is confident that inflation will be sustainably within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target band.\cb1 \
\ls9\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A target for the yield on 3-year Australian Government bonds of around 0.25\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 This will be achieved through purchases of Government bonds in the secondary market. Purchases of Government bonds and semi-government securities across the yield curve will be conducted to help achieve this target as well as to address market dislocations. These purchases will commence tomorrow. The Bank will work closely with the Australian Office of Financial Management (AOFM) and state government borrowing authorities to ensure the efficacy of its actions. Further details about the implementation of this are provided in the accompanying notice.\cb1 \
\ls9\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A term funding facility for the banking system, with particular support for credit to small and medium-sized businesses. \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 The Reserve Bank will provide a three-year funding facility to authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADIs) at a fixed rate of 0.25\'a0per\'a0cent. ADIs will be able to obtain initial funding of up to 3\'a0per\'a0cent of their existing outstanding credit. They will have access to additional funding if they increase lending to business, especially to small and medium-sized businesses. This facility is for at least $90\'a0billion. Further details are available in the accompanying notice.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 The Australian Government has also developed a complementary program of support for the non-bank financial sector, small lenders and the securitisation market, which will be implemented by the AOFM.\cb1 \
\ls9\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Exchange settlement balances at the Reserve Bank will be remunerated at 10\'a0basis points, rather than zero as would have been the case under the previous arrangements.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 This will mitigate the cost to the banking system associated with the large increase in banks' settlement balances at the Reserve Bank that will occur following these policy actions.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The Reserve Bank will also continue to provide liquidity to Australian financial markets by conducting one-month and three-month repo operations in its daily market operations until further notice. In addition, the Bank will conduct longer-term repo operations of six-month maturity or longer at least weekly, as long as market conditions warrant.\cb1 \
\cb2 The various elements of this package reinforce one another and will help to lower funding costs across the economy and support the provision of credit, especially to small and medium-sized businesses.\cb1 \
\cb2 Australia's financial system is resilient and well placed to deal with the effects of the coronavirus. The banking system is well capitalised and is in a strong liquidity position. Substantial financial buffers are available to be drawn down if required to support the economy. The Reserve Bank is working closely with the other financial regulators and the Australian Government to help ensure that Australia's financial markets continue to operate effectively and that credit is available to households and businesses.\cb1 \
\cb2 Today's policy package from the Reserve Bank complements the welcome fiscal response from governments in Australia. Together, these measures will support jobs, incomes and businesses through this difficult period and they will also assist the Australian economy in the recovery.\cb1 \
\cb2 There will be a press conference with further details at 4.00pm AEDT today.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash rate by 25\'a0basis points to 0.50\'a0per\'a0cent. The Board took this decision to support the economy as it responds to the global coronavirus outbreak.\cb1 \
\cb2 The coronavirus has clouded the near-term outlook for the global economy and means that global growth in the first half of 2020 will be lower than earlier expected. Prior to the outbreak, there were signs that the slowdown in the global economy that started in 2018 was coming to an end. It is too early to tell how persistent the effects of the coronavirus will be and at what point the global economy will return to an improving path. Policy measures have been announced in several countries, including China, which will help support growth. Inflation remains low almost everywhere and unemployment rates are at multi-decade lows in many countries.\cb1 \
\cb2 Long-term government bond yields have fallen to record lows in many countries, including Australia. The Australian dollar has also depreciated further recently and is at its lowest level for many years. In most economies, including the United States, there is an expectation of further monetary stimulus over coming months. Financial markets have been volatile as market participants assess the risks associated with the coronavirus. Australia's financial markets are operating effectively and the Bank will ensure that the Australian financial system has sufficient liquidity.\cb1 \
\cb2 The coronavirus outbreak overseas is having a significant effect on the Australian economy at present, particularly in the education and travel sectors. The uncertainty that it is creating is also likely to affect domestic spending. As a result, GDP growth in the March quarter is likely to be noticeably weaker than earlier expected. Given the evolving situation, it is difficult to predict how large and long-lasting the effect will be. Once the coronavirus is contained, the Australian economy is expected to return to an improving trend. This outlook is supported by the low level of interest rates, high levels of spending on infrastructure, the lower exchange rate, a positive outlook for the resources sector and expected recoveries in residential construction and household consumption. The Australian Government has also indicated that it will assist areas of the economy most affected by the coronavirus.\cb1 \
\cb2 The unemployment rate increased in January to 5.3\'a0per\'a0cent and has been around 5\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent since April last year. Wages growth remains subdued and is not expected to pick up for some time. A gradual lift in wages growth would be a welcome development and is needed for inflation to be sustainably within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are further signs of a pick-up in established housing markets, with prices rising in most markets, in some cases quite strongly. Mortgage loan commitments have also picked up, although demand for credit by investors remains subdued. Mortgage rates are at record lows and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality. Credit conditions for small and medium-sized businesses remain tight.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global outbreak of the coronavirus is expected to delay progress in Australia towards full employment and the inflation target. The Board therefore judged that it was appropriate to ease monetary policy further to provide additional support to employment and economic activity. It will continue to monitor developments closely and to assess the implications of the coronavirus for the economy. The Board is prepared to ease monetary policy further to support the Australian economy.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 0.75\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the global economy remains reasonable. There have been signs that the slowdown in global growth that started in 2018 is coming to an end. Global growth is expected to be a little stronger this year and next than it was last year and inflation remains low almost everywhere. One continuing source of uncertainty, despite recent progress, is the trade and technology dispute between the US and China, which has affected international trade flows and investment. Another source of uncertainty is the coronavirus, which is having a significant effect on the Chinese economy at present. It is too early to determine how long-lasting the impact will be.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates are very low around the world and a number of central banks eased monetary policy over the second half of last year. There is an expectation of a little further monetary easing in some economies. Long-term government bond yields are around record lows in many countries, including Australia. Borrowing rates for both businesses and households are at historically low levels. The Australian dollar is around its lowest level over recent times.\cb1 \
\cb2 The central scenario is for the Australian economy to grow by around 2\'be\'a0per\'a0cent this year and 3\'a0per\'a0cent next year, which would be a step up from the growth rates over the past two years. In the short term, the bushfires and the coronavirus outbreak will temporarily weigh on domestic growth. The household sector has been adjusting to a protracted period of slow wages growth and, last year, to a decline in housing prices, with the result that consumption has been quite weak. Following this period of balance-sheet adjustment, consumption growth is expected to pick up gradually. The overall outlook is also being supported by the low level of interest rates, recent tax refunds, ongoing spending on infrastructure, a brighter outlook for the resources sector and, later this year, an expected recovery in residential construction.\cb1 \
\cb2 The unemployment rate declined in December to 5.1\'a0per\'a0cent. It is expected to remain around this level for some time, before gradually declining to a little below 5\'a0per\'a0cent in 2021. Wages growth is subdued and is expected to remain at around its current rate for some time yet. A further gradual lift in wages growth would be a welcome development and is needed for inflation to be sustainably within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range. Taken together, recent outcomes suggest that the Australian economy can sustain lower rates of unemployment and underemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation remains low and stable. Over 2019, CPI inflation was 1.8\'a0per\'a0cent and underlying inflation was a little lower than this. The central scenario is for CPI inflation to be around 2\'a0per\'a0cent in the near term and to fluctuate around that rate over the next couple of years. In underlying terms, inflation is expected to increase gradually to 2\'a0per\'a0cent over the next couple of years.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are continuing signs of a pick-up in established housing markets. This is especially so in Sydney and Melbourne, but prices in some other markets have also increased. Mortgage loan commitments have also picked up, although demand for credit by investors remains subdued. Mortgage rates are at record lows and there is strong competition for borrowers of high credit quality. Credit conditions for small and medium-sized businesses remain tight.\cb1 \
\cb2 The easing of monetary policy last year is supporting employment and income growth in Australia and a return of inflation to the medium-term target range. The lower cash rate has put downward pressure on the exchange rate, which is supporting activity across a range of industries. Lower interest rates have assisted with the process of household balance sheet adjustment. They have also boosted asset prices, which in time should lead to increased spending, including on residential construction. Progress is expected towards the inflation target and towards full employment, but that progress is expected to remain gradual.\cb1 \
\cb2 With interest rates having already been reduced to a very low level and recognising the long and variable lags in the transmission of monetary policy, the Board decided to hold the cash rate steady at this meeting. Due to both global and domestic factors, it is reasonable to expect that an extended period of low interest rates will be required in Australia to reach full employment and achieve the inflation target. The Board will continue to monitor developments carefully, including in the labour market. It remains prepared to ease monetary policy further if needed to support sustainable growth in the economy, full employment and the achievement of the inflation target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls10\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
maintain the cash rate target at 10\'a0basis points and the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances at zero per\'a0cent\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
continue to purchase government securities at the rate of $4\'a0billion a week until at least mid February 2022.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The Australian economy is recovering from the setback caused by the Delta outbreak. High rates of vaccination and substantial policy support are underpinning this recovery. Household consumption is rebounding strongly and the outlook for business investment has improved. The emergence of the Omicron strain is a new source of uncertainty, but it is not expected to derail the recovery. The economy is expected to return to its pre-Delta path in the first half of 2022.\cb1 \
\cb2 Leading indicators point to a strong recovery in the labour market. Job advertisements are at an historically high level and there are reports of firms finding it difficult to hire workers. Wages growth has picked up but, at the aggregate level, has only returned to the relatively low rates prevailing before the pandemic. A further pick-up in wages growth is expected as the labour market tightens. This pick-up is expected to be only gradual, although there is uncertainty about the behaviour of wages as the unemployment rate declines to historically low levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has increased, but, in underlying terms, is still low, at 2.1\'a0per\'a0cent. The headline CPI inflation rate is 3\'a0per\'a0cent and is being affected by higher petrol prices, higher prices for newly constructed homes and the disruptions in global supply chains. A further, but only gradual, pick-up in underlying inflation is expected. The central forecast is for underlying inflation to reach 2\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over 2023.\cb1 \
\cb2 Housing prices have risen strongly over the past year, although the rate of increase has eased over recent months. Housing credit increased by 6.7\'a0per\'a0cent over the past year, but, more recently, the value of housing loan commitments has declined from high levels. With interest rates at historically low levels, it is important that lending standards are maintained and that borrowers have adequate buffers.\cb1 \
\cb2 Globally, bond yields have declined over the past month due to concerns about the Omicron variant. The Australian dollar exchange rate has depreciated and is around its lows of the past year. Financial conditions in Australia remain highly accommodative, with most lending rates around record lows.\cb1 \
\cb2 At its February meeting, the Board will consider the bond purchase program. By mid February, the RBA will hold a total of $350\'a0billion of bonds issued by the Australian Government and the states and territories, with these holdings providing significant support to the economy. In reaching its decision in February, the Board will be guided by the same three considerations that it has used from the outset of the program: the actions of other central banks; how the Australian bond market is functioning; and, most importantly, the actual and expected progress towards the goals of full employment and inflation consistent with the target.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to maintaining highly supportive monetary conditions to achieve its objectives of a return to full employment in Australia and inflation consistent with the target. While inflation has picked up, it remains low in underlying terms. Inflation pressures are also less than they are in many other countries, not least because of the only modest wages growth in Australia. The Board will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. This will require the labour market to be tight enough to generate wages growth that is materially higher than it is currently. This is likely to take some time and the Board is prepared to be patient.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls11\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
maintain the cash rate target at 10\'a0basis points and the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances at zero per\'a0cent\cb1 \
\ls11\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
continue to purchase government securities at the rate of $4\'a0billion a week until at least mid February 2022\cb1 \
\ls11\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
discontinue the target of 10\'a0basis points for the April 2024 Australian Government bond.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The Australian economy is recovering after the interruption caused by the Delta outbreak. As vaccination rates increase even further and restrictions are eased, the economy is expected to bounce back relatively quickly. The central forecast is for GDP growth of 3\'a0per\'a0cent over 2021 and 5\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent and 2\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over the following two years. One important source of uncertainty continues to be the possibility of a further setback on the health front.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Delta outbreak caused hours worked in Australia to fall sharply, but a bounce-back is now underway. The Bank's business liaison and the data on job ads suggest that many firms are now hiring, which will boost employment over coming months. The central forecast is for the unemployment rate to trend lower over the next couple of years, reaching 4\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of 2022 and 4\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of 2023.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has picked up, but in underlying terms is still low, at 2.1\'a0per\'a0cent. The headline CPI inflation rate is 3\'a0per\'a0cent and is being affected by higher petrol prices, higher prices for newly constructed homes and the disruptions in global supply chains. A further, but only gradual, pick-up in underlying inflation is expected. The central forecast is for underlying inflation of around 2\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent over 2021 and 2022 and 2\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over 2023. Wages growth is expected to pick up gradually as the labour market tightens, with the Wage Price Index forecast to increase by 2\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022 and 3\'a0per\'a0cent over 2023. The main uncertainties relate to the persistence of the current disruptions to global supply chains and the behaviour of wages at the lowest unemployment rate in decades.\cb1 \
\cb2 Housing prices are continuing to rise in most markets and housing credit growth has picked up due to stronger demand for credit by both owner-occupiers and investors. The Bank welcomes APRA's recent decision to increase the interest rate serviceability buffer on home loans. It is important that lending standards are maintained at a time of historically low interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions in Australia remain highly accommodative, with most lending rates at record lows. Bond yields have increased recently and bond market volatility has also risen significantly. The exchange rate has appreciated a little, but remains within the range of the past year.\cb1 \
\cb2 The decision to discontinue the yield target reflects the improvement in the economy and the earlier-than-expected progress towards the inflation target. Given that other market interest rates have moved in response to the increased likelihood of higher inflation and lower unemployment, the effectiveness of the yield target in holding down the general structure of interest rates in Australia has diminished.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to maintaining highly supportive monetary conditions to achieve a return to full employment in Australia and inflation consistent with the target. While inflation has picked up, it remains low in underlying terms. Inflation pressures are also less than they are in many other countries, not least because of the only modest wages growth in Australia.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. This will require the labour market to be tight enough to generate wages growth that is materially higher than it is currently. This is likely to take some time. The Board is prepared to be patient, with the central forecast being for underlying inflation to be no higher than 2\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of 2023 and for only a gradual increase in wages growth.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Governor will conduct a webinar, including a question and answer session, at 4.00\'a0pm AEDT today. This will be broadcast live on rba.gov.au.\cb1 \
\cb2 \
At its meeting today, the Board decided to:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls12\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
maintain the cash rate target at 10\'a0basis points and the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances at zero per\'a0cent\cb1 \
\ls12\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
maintain the target of 10\'a0basis points for the April 2024 Australian Government bond\cb1 \
\ls12\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
continue to purchase government securities at the rate of $4\'a0billion a week until at least mid February 2022.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The Delta outbreak has interrupted the recovery of the Australian economy and GDP is expected to have declined materially in the September quarter. The outbreak is affecting many parts of the economy, but the impact is uneven, with some areas facing very difficult conditions while others are continuing to grow strongly.\cb1 \
\cb2 This setback to the economic expansion in Australia is expected to be only temporary. As vaccination rates increase further and restrictions are eased, the economy is expected to bounce back. Many businesses are now planning for the easing of restrictions and confidence has held up reasonably well. There is, however, uncertainty about the timing and pace of the bounce-back and it is likely to be slower than that earlier in the year. Much will depend on the nature and timing of the easing of restrictions on activity. In our central scenario, the economy will be growing again in the December quarter and is expected to be back around its pre-Delta path in the second half of next year.\cb1 \
\cb2 The restrictions on activity have had a significant effect on the labour market. Hours worked \'96 the best indicator of labour market conditions at the moment \'96 declined by nearly 4\'a0per\'a0cent in August. Looking forward, the Bank's business liaison and data on job vacancies suggest that many firms are seeking to hire workers ahead of the expected reopening in October and November.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wage and price pressures remain subdued in Australia. In underlying terms, inflation is running at around 1\'be per\'a0cent and wages, as measured by the Wage Price Index, are increasing at just 1.7\'a0per\'a0cent. While disruptions to global supply chains are affecting the prices of some goods, the impact of this on the overall rate of inflation remains limited.\cb1 \
\cb2 Housing prices are continuing to rise, although turnover in some markets has declined following the virus outbreak. Housing credit growth has picked up due to stronger demand for credit by both owner-occupiers and investors. The Council of Financial Regulators has been discussing the medium-term risks to macroeconomic stability of rapid credit growth at a time of historically low interest rates. In this environment, it is important that lending standards are maintained and that loan serviceability buffers are appropriate.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's package of policies \'96 including record low interest rates, the bond purchase program, the yield target and the funding provided under the Term Funding Facility \'96 is providing substantial and ongoing support to the Australian economy. Borrowing rates are at record lows, sovereign bond yields are at very low levels and the exchange rate has depreciated over recent months. The fiscal responses by the Australian Government and the state and territory governments have also been providing welcome assistance in supporting household and business balance sheets.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to maintaining highly supportive monetary conditions to achieve a return to full employment in Australia and inflation consistent with the target. It will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. The central scenario for the economy is that this condition will not be met before 2024. Meeting this condition will require the labour market to be tight enough to generate wages growth that is materially higher than it is currently.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls13\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
maintain the cash rate target at 10\'a0basis points and the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances of zero per\'a0cent\cb1 \
\ls13\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
maintain the target of 10\'a0basis points for the April 2024 Australian Government bond\cb1 \
\ls13\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
purchase government securities at the rate of $4\'a0billion a week and to continue the purchases at this rate until at least mid February 2022.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Prior to the Delta outbreak the Australian economy had considerable momentum. GDP increased by 0.7\'a0per\'a0cent in the June quarter and by nearly 10\'a0per\'a0cent over the year. Business investment was picking up and the labour market had strengthened. The unemployment rate had fallen below 5\'a0per\'a0cent and job vacancies were at a high level.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recovery in the Australian economy has, however, been interrupted by the Delta outbreak and the associated restrictions on activity. GDP is expected to decline materially in the September quarter and the unemployment rate will move higher over coming months. While the outbreak is affecting most parts of the economy, the impact is uneven, with some areas facing very difficult conditions while others are continuing to grow strongly.\cb1 \
\cb2 This setback to the economic expansion is expected to be only temporary. The Delta outbreak is expected to delay, but not derail, the recovery. As vaccination rates increase further and restrictions are eased, the economy should bounce back. There is, however, uncertainty about the timing and pace of this bounce-back and it is likely to be slower than that earlier in the year. Much will depend on the health situation and the easing of restrictions on activity. In our central scenario, the economy will be growing again in the December quarter and is expected to be back around its pre-Delta path in the second half of next year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Notwithstanding the strong economic and labour market outcomes pre-Delta, wage and price pressures remain subdued. Over the year to the June quarter, the Wage Price Index increased by just 1.7\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Housing prices are continuing to rise, although turnover in some markets has declined following the virus outbreak. Housing credit growth has picked up due to stronger demand for credit by both owner-occupiers and investors. Given the environment of rising housing prices and low interest rates, the Bank is monitoring trends in housing borrowing carefully and it is important that lending standards are maintained.\cb1 \
\cb2 Very accommodative financial conditions will continue to support the recovery of the Australian economy. Borrowing rates are at record lows, sovereign bond yields are at very low levels and the exchange rate has depreciated over recent months. The fiscal responses by the Australian Government and the state and territory governments are also providing welcome assistance in supporting household and business balance sheets.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board's decision to extend the bond purchases at $4\'a0billion a week until at least February 2022 reflects the delay in the economic recovery and the increased uncertainty associated with the Delta outbreak. The Board will continue to review the bond purchase program in light of economic conditions and the health situation, and their implications for the expected progress towards full employment and the inflation target. These bond purchases, together with the low level of the cash rate, the yield target and the funding that has been provided under the Term Funding Facility, are providing substantial and ongoing support to the Australian economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to maintaining highly supportive monetary conditions to achieve a return to full employment in Australia and inflation consistent with the target. It will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. The central scenario for the economy is that this condition will not be met before 2024. Meeting this condition will require the labour market to be tight enough to generate wages growth that is materially higher than it is currently.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls14\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
maintain the cash rate target at 10\'a0basis points and the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances of zero per\'a0cent\cb1 \
\ls14\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
maintain the target of 10\'a0basis points for the April 2024 Australian Government bond\cb1 \
\ls14\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
continue to purchase government securities at the rate of $5\'a0billion a week until early September and then $4\'a0billion a week until at least mid November.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The economic recovery in Australia has been stronger than was earlier expected. The recent outbreaks of the virus are, however, interrupting the recovery and GDP is expected to decline in the September quarter. The experience to date has been that once virus outbreaks are contained, the economy bounces back quickly. Prior to the current virus outbreaks, the Australian economy had considerable momentum and it is still expected to grow strongly again next year. The economy is benefiting from significant additional policy support and the vaccination program will also assist with the recovery.\cb1 \
\cb2 The economic outlook for the coming months is uncertain and depends upon the evolution of the health situation and the containment measures. Beyond that, the Bank's central scenario is for the economy to grow by a little over 4\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022 and by around 2\'bd per\'a0cent over 2023. This scenario is based on a significant share of the population being vaccinated by the end of this year and a gradual opening up of the international border from the middle of 2022. The Board also considered a range of other scenarios, with the main source of uncertainty being the health situation.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market has recovered faster than expected, with the unemployment rate declining further to 4.9\'a0per\'a0cent in June. Job vacancies have remained at a high level and there are reports of labour shortages in parts of the economy. Some increase in the unemployment rate is expected in the near term due to the current lockdowns, but most of the adjustment in the labour market is likely to take place through a reduction in hours worked and in participation. In the central scenario, the unemployment rate continues to trend lower next year, to be around 4\'bc per\'a0cent at the end of 2022 and 4\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of 2023.\cb1 \
\cb2 The CPI inflation rate spiked to 3.8\'a0per\'a0cent for the year to the June quarter, largely reflecting the unwinding of some earlier COVID-19-related price declines. In underlying terms, inflation remains low, at around 1\'be per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Looking forward, a pick-up in both wages growth and underlying inflation is expected, but this pick-up is likely to be only gradual. In the Bank's central scenario, it takes some years for the stronger economy to feed through into wage and price increases that are consistent with the inflation target. In underlying terms, inflation is expected to be 1\'be per\'a0cent over 2022 and 2\'bc per\'a0cent over 2023. One source of uncertainty is the behaviour of wages and prices at the low levels of forecast unemployment, including because it is some decades since Australia has sustained an unemployment rate around 4\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Housing markets have continued to strengthen, with prices rising in all major markets. Housing credit growth has picked up, with strong demand from owner-occupiers, including first-home buyers. There has also been increased borrowing by investors. Given the environment of rising housing prices and low interest rates, the Bank is monitoring trends in housing borrowing carefully and it is important that lending standards are maintained.\cb1 \
\cb2 Domestic financial conditions remain very accommodative, sovereign bond yields have declined and the exchange rate has depreciated to around its lowest level this year, despite elevated levels of commodity prices. The recent fiscal responses by the Australian Government and the state and territory governments are also providing welcome support to the economy at a time of significant short-term disruption.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board remains committed to maintaining highly accommodative monetary conditions to support a return to full employment in Australia and inflation consistent with the target. Together, the low level of the cash rate, the bond purchase program, the yield target and the ongoing funding that has been provided under the Term Funding Facility are providing substantial support to the Australian economy in the face of lockdowns in parts of the country and the expected resumption of the economic expansion.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board will maintain its flexible approach to the rate of bond purchases. The program will continue to be reviewed in light of economic conditions and the health situation, and their implications for the expected progress towards full employment and the inflation target. The Board will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. The central scenario for the economy is that this condition will not be met before 2024. Meeting this condition will require the labour market to be tight enough to generate wages growth that is materially higher than it is currently.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls15\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
retain the April 2024 bond as the bond for the yield target and retain the target of 10\'a0basis points\cb1 \
\ls15\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
continue purchasing government bonds after the completion of the current bond purchase program in early September. These purchases will be at the rate of $4\'a0billion a week until at least mid November\cb1 \
\ls15\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
maintain the cash rate target at 10\'a0basis points and the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances of zero per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 These measures will provide the continuing monetary support that the economy needs as it transitions from the recovery phase to the expansion phase. The Board is committed to achieving the goals of full employment and inflation consistent with the target. Today's decisions, together with those taken previously, have the economy on a path to achieve those objectives.\cb1 \
\cb2 The economic recovery in Australia is stronger than earlier expected and is forecast to continue. The outlook for investment has improved and household and business balance sheets are generally in good shape. National income is also being supported by the high prices for commodity exports. Domestic financial conditions are very supportive and the exchange rate has depreciated a little recently. One near-term uncertainty is the effect of the recent virus outbreaks and the lockdowns. But the experience to date has been that once outbreaks are contained and restrictions are eased, the economy bounces back quickly.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market has continued to recover faster than expected. The unemployment rate declined further to 5.1\'a0per\'a0cent in May and more Australians have jobs than before the pandemic. There has also been a welcome decline in underemployment and labour force participation is around record highs. Job vacancies are high and more firms are reporting shortages of labour, particularly in areas affected by the closure of Australia's international borders.\cb1 \
\cb2 Despite the strong recovery in jobs and reports of labour shortages, inflation and wage outcomes remain subdued. While a pick-up in inflation and wages growth is expected, it is likely to be only gradual and modest. In the central scenario, inflation in underlying terms is expected to be 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over 2021 and 2\'a0per\'a0cent by mid\'a02023. In the short term, CPI inflation is expected to rise temporarily to about 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to the June quarter because of the reversal of some COVID-19-related price reductions a year ago.\cb1 \
\cb2 Maintaining the target of 10\'a0basis points for the April 2024 bond will continue to keep interest rates low at the short end of the yield curve and support low funding costs in Australia. The yield on this bond is consistent with the target and the RBA remains prepared to operate in the market to achieve the target.\cb1 \
\cb2 The bond purchase program is playing an important role in supporting the Australian economy. The Bank will continue to purchase bonds given that we remain some distance from the inflation and employment objectives. However, the Board is responding to the stronger-than-expected economic recovery and the improved outlook by adjusting the weekly amount purchased. It will conduct a further review in November, allowing the Board to respond to the state of the economy at that time.\cb1 \
\cb2 The final draw-downs under the Term Funding Facility were made in late June. In total, $188\'a0billion has been drawn down under this facility, which has contributed to the Australian banking system being highly liquid. Given that the facility is providing low-cost fixed-rate funding for 3\'a0years, it will continue to support low borrowing costs until mid\'a02024.\cb1 \
\cb2 Housing markets have continued to strengthen, with prices rising in all major markets. Housing credit growth has picked up, with strong demand from owner-occupiers, including first-home buyers. There has also been increased borrowing by investors. Given the environment of rising housing prices and low interest rates, the Bank will be monitoring trends in housing borrowing carefully and it is important that lending standards are maintained.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board remains committed to maintaining highly supportive monetary conditions to support a return to full employment in Australia and inflation consistent with the target. It will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. The Bank's central scenario for the economy is that this condition will not be met before 2024. Meeting it will require the labour market to be tight enough to generate wages growth that is materially higher than it is currently.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the current policy settings, including: the targets of 10\'a0basis points for the cash rate and the yield on the 3-year Australian Government bond; the parameters of the government bond purchase program; and the rate of zero per\'a0cent on Exchange Settlement balances.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing to recover from the pandemic and the outlook is for strong growth this year and next. The recovery remains uneven, though, and some countries are yet to contain the virus. Global trade in goods has picked up strongly and commodity prices are mostly higher than at the start of the year. However, inflation in underlying terms remains low and below central bank targets.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sovereign bond yields have been steady recently after increasing earlier in the year due to the positive news on vaccines and the additional fiscal stimulus in the United States. Medium-term inflation expectations have lifted from near record lows to be closer to central banks' targets. The 3-year government bond yield in Australia is consistent with the Board's target and lending rates for most borrowers are at record lows. The Australian dollar remains in the upper end of the range of recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The economic recovery in Australia is stronger than earlier expected and is forecast to continue. The Bank's central scenario is for GDP to grow by 4\'be\'a0per\'a0cent over this year and 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022. This outlook is supported by fiscal measures and very accommodative financial conditions. An important ongoing source of uncertainty is the possibility of significant outbreaks of the virus, although this should diminish as more of the population is vaccinated.\cb1 \
\cb2 Progress in reducing unemployment has been faster than expected, with the unemployment rate declining to 5.5\'a0per\'a0cent in April. Job vacancies are at a high level and a further decline in the unemployment rate to around 5\'a0per\'a0cent is expected by the end of this year. There are reports of labour shortages in some parts of the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Despite the strong recovery in the economy and jobs, inflation and wage pressures are subdued. While a pick-up in inflation and wages growth is expected, it is likely to be only gradual and modest. In the central scenario, inflation in underlying terms is expected to be 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent in 2021 and 2\'a0per\'a0cent in mid\'a02023. In the short term, CPI inflation is expected to rise temporarily to be above 3\'a0per\'a0cent in the June quarter because of the reversal of some COVID-19-related price reductions.\cb1 \
\cb2 Housing markets have strengthened further, with prices rising in all major markets. Housing credit growth has picked up, with strong demand from owner-occupiers, especially first-home buyers. There has also been increased borrowing by investors. Given the environment of rising housing prices and low interest rates, the Bank will be monitoring trends in housing borrowing carefully and it is important that lending standards are maintained.\cb1 \
\cb2 As foreshadowed last month, at its July meeting the Board will consider whether to retain the April 2024 bond as the target bond for the 3-year yield target or to shift to the next maturity, the November 2024 bond. The Board is not considering a change to the target of 10\'a0basis points. At the July meeting the Board will also consider future bond purchases following the completion of the second $100\'a0billion of purchases under the government bond purchase program in September. The Board continues to place a high priority on a return to full employment.\cb1 \
\cb2 The date for final drawings under the Term Funding Facility is 30\'a0June 2021. So far, authorised deposit-taking institutions have drawn $134\'a0billion under this facility and a further $75\'a0billion is available. The facility is providing low-cost fixed-rate funding for 3\'a0years and so will continue to support low borrowing costs until mid\'a02024.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to maintaining highly supportive monetary conditions to support a return to full employment in Australia and inflation consistent with the target. It will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. For this to occur, the labour market will need to be tight enough to generate wages growth that is materially higher than it is currently. This is unlikely to be until 2024 at the earliest.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the current policy settings, including the targets of 10\'a0basis points for the cash rate and the yield on the 3-year Australian Government bond, as well as the parameters of the Term Funding Facility and the government bond purchase program.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing to recover from the pandemic and the outlook is for strong growth this year and next. The recovery remains uneven, though, and some countries are yet to contain the virus. Global trade in goods has picked up strongly and commodity prices are mostly higher than at the start of the year. However, inflation remains low and below central bank targets.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sovereign bond yields have been steady recently after increasing earlier in the year due to the positive news on vaccines and the additional fiscal stimulus in the United States. Inflation expectations have lifted from near record lows to be closer to central banks' targets. The 3-year government bond yield in Australia is at the Board's target of 10\'a0basis points and lending rates for most borrowers are at record lows. The Australian dollar remains in the upper end of the range of recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The economic recovery in Australia has been stronger than expected and is forecast to continue. This recovery is especially evident in the strong growth in employment, with the unemployment rate falling further to 5.6\'a0per\'a0cent in March and the number of people with a job now exceeding the pre-pandemic level.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's central scenario for GDP growth has been revised up further, with growth of 4\'be\'a0per\'a0cent expected over 2021 and 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022. A pick-up in business investment is expected and household spending will be supported by the strengthening in balance sheets over the past year. The unemployment rate is expected to continue to decline, to be around 5\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of this year and around 4\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of 2022.\cb1 \
\cb2 Despite the strong recovery in economic activity, the recent CPI data confirmed that inflation pressures remain subdued in most parts of the Australian economy. A pick-up in inflation and wages growth is expected, but it is likely to be only gradual and modest. In the central scenario, inflation in underlying terms is expected to be 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent in 2021 and 2\'a0per\'a0cent in mid\'a02023. In the short term, CPI inflation is expected to rise temporarily to be above 3\'a0per\'a0cent in the June quarter because of the reversal of some COVID-19-related price reductions.\cb1 \
\cb2 Housing markets have strengthened further, with prices rising in all major markets. Housing credit growth has picked up, with strong demand from owner-occupiers, especially first-home buyers. Given the environment of rising housing prices and low interest rates, the Bank will be monitoring trends in housing borrowing carefully and it is important that lending standards are maintained.\cb1 \
\cb2 At its July meeting, the Board will consider whether to retain the April 2024 bond as the target bond for the 3-year yield target or to shift to the next maturity, the November 2024 bond. The Board is not considering a change to the target of 10\'a0basis points. At the July meeting, the Board will also consider future bond purchases following the completion of the second $100\'a0billion of purchases under the government bond purchase program in September. The Board is prepared to undertake further bond purchases to assist with progress towards the goals of full employment and inflation. The Board places a high priority on a return to full employment.\cb1 \
\cb2 The date for final drawings under the Term Funding Facility is 30\'a0June 2021. Given that financial markets in Australia are operating well, the Board is not considering a further extension of this facility. Authorised deposit-taking institutions have drawn $100\'a0billion so far and a further $100\'a0billion is currently available. Given the facility provides funding for 3\'a0years, it will continue to support low funding costs in Australia until mid\'a02024.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to maintaining highly supportive monetary conditions to support a return to full employment in Australia and inflation consistent with the target. It will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. For this to occur, the labour market will need to be tight enough to generate wages growth that is materially higher than it is currently. This is unlikely to be until 2024 at the earliest.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the current policy settings, including the targets of 10\'a0basis points for the cash rate and the yield on the 3-year Australian Government bond, as well as the parameters of the Term Funding Facility and the government bond purchase program.\cb1 \
\cb2 The rollout of vaccines is supporting the recovery of the global economy, although the recovery is uneven. While there are still considerable uncertainties regarding the outlook, the central case has improved. Global trade has picked up and commodity prices are mostly higher than at the start of the year. Inflation remains low and below central bank targets.\cb1 \
\cb2 Sovereign bond yields have increased over recent months due to the positive news on vaccines and the additional fiscal stimulus in the United States. Inflation expectations have also lifted from near record lows to be now closer to central banks' targets. The 3-year government bond yield in Australia is at the Board's target of 10\'a0basis points and lending rates for most borrowers are at record lows. The Australian dollar remains in the upper end of the range of recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The economic recovery in Australia is well under way and is stronger than had been expected. The unemployment rate fell to 5.8\'a0per\'a0cent in February and the number of people with a job has returned to the pre-pandemic level. GDP increased by a strong 3.1\'a0per\'a0cent in the December quarter, boosted by a further lift in household consumption as the health situation improved. The recovery is expected to continue, with above-trend growth this year and next. Household and business balance sheets are in good shape and should continue to support spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 Nevertheless, wage and price pressures are subdued and are expected to remain so for some years. The economy is operating with considerable spare capacity and unemployment is still too high. It will take some time to reduce this spare capacity and for the labour market to be tight enough to generate wage increases that are consistent with achieving the inflation target. In the short term, CPI inflation is expected to rise temporarily because of the reversal of some COVID-19-related price reductions. Looking through this, underlying inflation is expected to remain below 2\'a0per\'a0cent over the next few years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Housing markets have strengthened further, with prices rising in most markets. Housing credit growth to owner-occupiers has picked up, with strong demand from first-home buyers. In contrast, investor credit growth remains subdued. Given the environment of rising housing prices and low interest rates, the Bank will be monitoring trends in housing borrowing carefully and it is important that lending standards are maintained.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board remains committed to the 3-year government bond yield target of 10\'a0basis points. Later in the year it will consider whether to retain the April 2024 bond as the target bond or to shift to the next maturity. The initial $100\'a0billion government bond purchase program is almost complete and the second $100\'a0billion program will commence next week. Beyond this, the Bank is prepared to undertake further bond purchases if doing so would assist with progress towards the goals of full employment and inflation. Authorised deposit-taking institutions have drawn $95\'a0billion under the Term Funding Facility and have access to a further $95\'a0billion. Since the start of 2020, the RBA's balance sheet has increased by around $215\'a0billion.\cb1 \
\cb2 These various monetary measures are continuing to help the economy by keeping financing costs very low, contributing to a lower exchange rate than otherwise, and supporting the supply of credit and household and business balance sheets. Together, monetary and fiscal policy are contributing to the recovery in aggregate demand and the pick-up in employment.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to maintaining highly supportive monetary conditions until its goals are achieved. The Board will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. For this to occur, wages growth will have to be materially higher than it is currently. This will require significant gains in employment and a return to a tight labour market. The Board does not expect these conditions to be met until 2024 at the earliest.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the current policy settings, including the targets of 10\'a0basis points for the cash rate and the yield on the 3-year Australian Government bond, as well as the parameters of the Term Funding Facility and the government bond purchase program.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the global economy has improved over recent months due to the ongoing rollout of vaccines. While the path ahead is likely to remain bumpy and uneven, there are better prospects for a sustained recovery than there were a few months ago. Global trade has picked up and commodity prices have increased over recent months. Even so, the recovery remains dependent on the health situation and on significant fiscal and monetary support. Inflation remains low and below central bank targets.\cb1 \
\cb2 The positive news on vaccines together with the prospect of further significant fiscal stimulus in the United States has seen longer-term bond yields increase considerably over the past month. This increase partly reflects a lift in expected inflation over the medium term to rates that are closer to central banks' targets. Reflecting these global developments, there have been similar movements in Australian bond markets. Changes in bond yields globally have been associated with volatility in some other asset prices, including foreign exchange rates. The Australian dollar remains in the upper end of the range of recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economic recovery is well under way and has been stronger than was earlier expected. There has been strong growth in employment and a welcome decline in the unemployment rate to 6.4\'a0per\'a0cent. Retail spending has been strong and most of the households and businesses that had deferred loan repayments have now recommenced repayments. The recovery is expected to continue, with the central scenario being for GDP to grow by 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over both 2021 and 2022. GDP is expected to return to its end-2019 level by the middle of this year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wage and price pressures are subdued and are expected to remain so for some years. The economy is still operating with considerable spare capacity and the unemployment rate remains higher than it has been for some years. Further progress in reducing spare capacity is expected, but it will be some time before the labour market is tight enough to generate wage increases that are consistent with achieving the inflation target. In the central scenario, the unemployment rate will still be around 6\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of this year and 5\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of 2022. In underlying terms, inflation is expected to be 1\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent over 2021 and 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022. CPI inflation is expected to rise temporarily because of the reversal of some COVID-19-related price reductions.\cb1 \
\cb2 The current monetary policy settings are continuing to help the economy by keeping financing costs very low, contributing to a lower exchange rate than otherwise, and supporting the supply of credit and household and business balance sheets. Together, monetary and fiscal policy are supporting the recovery in aggregate demand and the pick-up in employment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Lending rates for most borrowers are at record lows and housing prices across Australia have increased recently. Housing credit growth to owner-occupiers has picked up, but investor and business credit growth remain weak. Lending standards remain sound and it is important that they remain so in an environment of rising housing prices and low interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank remains committed to the 3-year yield target and recently purchased bonds to support the target and will continue to do so as necessary. Also, bond purchases under the bond purchase program were brought forward this week to assist with the smooth functioning of the market. The Bank is prepared to make further adjustments to its purchases in response to market conditions. To date, a cumulative $74\'a0billion of government bonds issued by the Australian Government and the states and territories have been purchased under the initial $100\'a0billion program. A further $100\'a0billion will be purchased following the completion of the initial program and the Bank is prepared to do more if that is necessary. Authorised deposit-taking institutions have drawn $91\'a0billion under the Term Funding Facility and have access to a further $94\'a0billion. Since the start of 2020, the RBA's balance sheet has increased by around $175\'a0billion.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board remains committed to maintaining highly supportive monetary conditions until its goals are achieved. The Board will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. For this to occur, wages growth will have to be materially higher than it is currently. This will require significant gains in employment and a return to a tight labour market. The Board does not expect these conditions to be met until 2024 at the earliest.\cb1 \
\cb2 \
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the targets of 10\'a0basis points for the cash rate and the yield on the 3-year Australian Government bond, as well as the parameters of the Term Funding Facility. It also decided to purchase an additional $100\'a0billion of bonds issued by the Australian Government and states and territories when the current bond purchase program is completed in mid April. These additional purchases will be at the current rate of $5\'a0billion a week.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for the global economy has improved over recent months due to the development of vaccines. While the path ahead is likely to remain bumpy and uneven, there are better prospects for a sustained recovery than there were a few months ago. That recovery, however, remains dependent on the health situation and on significant fiscal and monetary support. Inflation remains low and below central bank targets.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, the economic recovery is well under way and has been stronger than was earlier expected. There has been strong growth in employment and a welcome decline in the unemployment rate to 6.6\'a0per\'a0cent. Retail spending has been strong and many of the households and businesses that had deferred loan repayments have now recommenced repayments. These outcomes have been underpinned by Australia's success on the health front and the very significant fiscal and monetary support.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recovery is expected to continue, with the central scenario being for GDP to grow by 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over both 2021 and 2022. GDP is now expected to return to its end-2019 level by the middle of this year. Even so, the economy is expected to operate with considerable spare capacity for some time to come. The unemployment rate remains higher than it has been for the past 2\'a0decades and while it is expected to decline, the central scenario is for unemployment to be around 6\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of this year and 5\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of 2022.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wage and price pressures remain subdued. The CPI increased by just 0.9\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to the December quarter and wages (as measured by the Wage Price Index) are increasing at the slowest rate on record. Both inflation and wages growth are expected to pick up, but to do so only gradually, with both remaining below 2\'a0per\'a0cent over the next couple of years. In underlying terms, inflation is expected to be 1\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent over 2021 and 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022.\cb1 \
\cb2 In addition to the central scenario, the Board considered upside and downside scenarios related to the virus and the rollout of vaccines. Disappointing news on the health front would delay the recovery and the expected progress on reducing unemployment. On the other hand, it is possible that further positive health outcomes would boost consumer spending and investment, leading to stronger growth than is currently expected. An important near-term issue is how households and businesses adjust to the tapering of some of the COVID support measures and to what extent they will use their stronger balance sheets to support spending.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions remain highly accommodative, with lending rates for most borrowers at record lows and asset prices, including housing prices, mostly increasing. Housing credit growth to owner-occupiers has picked up recently, but investor and business credit growth remain weak. The exchange rate has appreciated and is in the upper end of the range of recent years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board remains committed to maintaining highly supportive monetary conditions until its goals are achieved. Given the current outlook for inflation and jobs, this is still some way off. The current monetary policy settings are continuing to help the economy by lowering financing costs for borrowers, contributing to a lower exchange rate than otherwise, supporting the supply of credit needed for the recovery and supporting household and business balance sheets. The decision to extend the bond purchase program will ensure a continuation of this monetary support.\cb1 \
\cb2 To date, authorised deposit-taking institutions have drawn $86\'a0billion under the Term Funding Facility and have access to a further $99\'a0billion. The Bank has bought a cumulative $52\'a0billion of government bonds issued by the Australian Government and the states and territories under the bond purchase program. It has not purchased bonds in support of the 3-year yield target since early December. Since the start of 2020, the RBA's balance sheet has increased by around $160\'a0billion.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. For this to occur, wages growth will have to be materially higher than it is currently. This will require significant gains in employment and a return to a tight labour market. The Board does not expect these conditions to be met until 2024 at the earliest.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate target by 25\'a0basis points to 3.10\'a0per\'a0cent. It also increased the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances by 25\'a0basis points to 3.00\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia is too high, at 6.9\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to October. Global factors explain much of this high inflation, but strong domestic demand relative to the ability of the economy to meet that demand is also playing a role. Returning inflation to target requires a more sustainable balance between demand and supply.\cb1 \
\cb2 A further increase in inflation is expected over the months ahead, with inflation forecast to peak at around 8\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to the December quarter. Inflation is then expected to decline next year due to the ongoing resolution of global supply-side problems, recent declines in some commodity prices and slower growth in demand. Medium-term inflation expectations remain well anchored, and it is important that this remains the case. The Bank\'92s central forecast is for CPI inflation to decline over the next couple of years to be a little above 3\'a0per\'a0cent over 2024.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is continuing to grow solidly. Economic growth is expected to moderate over the year ahead as the global economy slows, the bounce-back in spending on services runs its course, and growth in household consumption slows due to tighter financial conditions. The Bank\'92s central forecast is for growth of around 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent in 2023 and 2024.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market remains very tight, with many firms having difficulty hiring workers. The unemployment rate declined to 3.4\'a0per\'a0cent in October, the lowest rate since 1974. Job vacancies and job ads are both at very high levels, although they have declined a little recently. Employment growth has also slowed as spare capacity in the labour market is absorbed. Wages growth is continuing to pick up from the low rates of recent years and a further pick-up is expected due to the tight labour market and higher inflation. Given the importance of avoiding a prices-wages spiral, the Board will continue to pay close attention to both the evolution of labour costs and the price-setting behaviour of firms in the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 There has been a substantial cumulative increase in interest rates since May. This has been necessary to ensure that the current period of high inflation is only temporary. High inflation damages our economy and makes life more difficult for people. The Board\'92s priority is to re-establish low inflation and return inflation to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board recognises that monetary policy operates with a lag and that the full effect of the increase in interest rates is yet to be felt in mortgage payments. Household spending is expected to slow over the period ahead although the timing and extent of this slowdown is uncertain. Another source of uncertainty is the outlook for the global economy, which has deteriorated. The Board is seeking to keep the economy on an even keel as it returns inflation to target, but these uncertainties mean that there are a range of potential scenarios. The path to achieving the needed decline in inflation and achieving a soft landing for the economy remains a narrow one.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board expects to increase interest rates further over the period ahead, but it is not on a pre-set course. It is closely monitoring the global economy, household spending and wage and price-setting behaviour. The size and timing of future interest rate increases will continue to be determined by the incoming data and the Board\'92s assessment of the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate target by 25\'a0basis points to 2.85\'a0per\'a0cent. It also increased the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances by 25\'a0basis points to 2.75\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 As is the case in most countries, inflation in Australia is too high. Over the year to September, the CPI inflation rate was 7.3\'a0per\'a0cent, the highest it has been in more than three decades. Global factors explain much of this high inflation, but strong domestic demand relative to the ability of the economy to meet that demand is also playing a role. Returning inflation to target requires a more sustainable balance between demand and supply.\cb1 \
\cb2 A further increase in inflation is expected over the months ahead, with inflation now forecast to peak at around 8\'a0per\'a0cent later this year. Inflation is then expected to decline next year due to the ongoing resolution of global supply-side problems, recent declines in some commodity prices and slower growth in demand. Medium-term inflation expectations remain well anchored, and it is important that this remains the case. The Bank\'92s central forecast is for CPI inflation to be around 4\'be\'a0per\'a0cent over 2023 and a little above 3\'a0per\'a0cent over 2024.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is continuing to grow solidly and national income is being boosted by a record level of the terms of trade. Economic growth is expected to moderate over the year ahead as the global economy slows, the bounce-back in spending on services runs its course, and growth in household consumption slows due to tighter financial conditions. The Bank\'92s central forecast for GDP growth has been revised down a little, with growth of around 3\'a0per\'a0cent expected this year and 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent in 2023 and 2024.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market remains very tight, with many firms having difficulty hiring workers. The unemployment rate was steady at 3.5\'a0per\'a0cent in September, around the lowest rate in almost 50\'a0years. Job vacancies and job ads are both at very high levels, although employment growth has slowed over recent months as spare capacity in the labour market has been absorbed. The central forecast is for the unemployment rate to remain around its current level over the months ahead, but to increase gradually to a little above 4\'a0per\'a0cent in 2024 as economic growth slows.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wages growth is continuing to pick up from the low rates of recent years, although it remains lower than in many other advanced economies. A further pick-up is expected due to the tight labour market and higher inflation. Given the importance of avoiding a prices-wages spiral, the Board will continue to pay close attention to both the evolution of labour costs and the price-setting behaviour of firms in the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 Price stability is a prerequisite for a strong economy and a sustained period of full employment. Given this, the Board\'92s priority is to return inflation to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range over time. It is seeking to do this while keeping the economy on an even keel. The path to achieving this balance remains a narrow one and it is clouded in uncertainty.\cb1 \
\cb2 One source of uncertainty is the outlook for the global economy, which has deteriorated over recent months. Another is how household spending in Australia responds to the tighter financial conditions. The Board recognises that monetary policy operates with a lag and that the full effect of the increase in interest rates is yet to be felt in mortgage payments. Higher interest rates and higher inflation are putting pressure on the budgets of many households. Consumer confidence has also fallen and housing prices have been declining following the earlier large increases. Working in the other direction, people are finding jobs, gaining more hours of work and receiving higher wages. Many households have also built up large financial buffers and the saving rate remains higher than it was before the pandemic.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board has increased interest rates materially since May. This has been necessary to establish a more sustainable balance of demand and supply in the Australian economy to help return inflation to target. The Board expects to increase interest rates further over the period ahead. It is closely monitoring the global economy, household spending and wage and price-setting behaviour. The size and timing of future interest rate increases will continue to be determined by the incoming data and the Board\'92s assessment of the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate target by 25\'a0basis points to 2.60\'a0per\'a0cent. It also increased the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances by 25\'a0basis points to 2.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to returning inflation to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range over time. Today\'92s increase in interest rates will help achieve this goal and further increases are likely to be required over the period ahead. The cash rate has been increased substantially in a short period of time. Reflecting this, the Board decided to increase the cash rate by 25\'a0basis points this month as it assesses the outlook for inflation and economic growth in Australia.\cb1 \
\cb2 As is the case in most countries, inflation in Australia is too high. Global factors explain much of this high inflation, but strong domestic demand relative to the ability of the economy to meet that demand is also playing a role.\cb1 \
\cb2 A further increase in inflation is expected over the months ahead, before inflation then declines back towards the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range. The expected moderation in inflation next year reflects the ongoing resolution of global supply-side problems, recent declines in some commodity prices and the impact of rising interest rates. Medium-term inflation expectations remain well anchored, and it is important that this remains the case. The Bank\'92s central forecast is for CPI inflation to be around 7\'be\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022, a little above 4\'a0per\'a0cent over 2023 and around 3\'a0per\'a0cent over 2024.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is continuing to grow solidly and national income is being boosted by a record level of the terms of trade. The labour market is very tight and many firms are having difficulty hiring workers. The unemployment rate in August was 3.5\'a0per\'a0cent, around the lowest rate in almost 50\'a0years. Job vacancies and job ads are both at very high levels, suggesting a further decline in the unemployment rate over the months ahead. Beyond that, some increase in the unemployment rate is expected as economic growth slows.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wages growth is continuing to pick up from the low rates of recent years, although it remains lower than in other advanced economies where inflation is higher. Given the tight labour market and the upstream price pressures, the Board will continue to pay close attention to both the evolution of labour costs and the price-setting behaviour of firms in the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 Price stability is a prerequisite for a strong economy and a sustained period of full employment. Given this, the Board\'92s priority is to return inflation to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range over time. It is seeking to do this while keeping the economy on an even keel. The path to achieving this balance is a narrow one and it is clouded in uncertainty.\cb1 \
\cb2 One source of uncertainty is the outlook for the global economy, which has deteriorated recently. Another is how household spending in Australia responds to the tighter financial conditions. Higher inflation and higher interest rates are putting pressure on household budgets, with the full effects of higher interest rates yet to be felt in mortgage payments. Consumer confidence has also fallen and housing prices are declining after the earlier large increases. Working in the other direction, people are finding jobs, gaining more hours of work and receiving higher wages. Many households have also built up large financial buffers and the saving rate still remains higher than it was before the pandemic.\cb1 \
\cb2 Today\'92s further increase in interest rates will help achieve a more sustainable balance of demand and supply in the Australian economy. This is necessary to bring inflation back down. The Board expects to increase interest rates further over the period ahead. It is closely monitoring the global economy, household spending and wage and price-setting behaviour. The size and timing of future interest rate increases will continue to be determined by the incoming data and the Board\'92s assessment of the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate target by 50\'a0basis points to 2.35\'a0per\'a0cent. It also increased the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances by 50\'a0basis points to 2.25\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to returning inflation to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range over time. It is seeking to do this while keeping the economy on an even keel. The path to achieving this balance is a narrow one and clouded in uncertainty, not least because of global developments. The outlook for global economic growth has deteriorated due to pressures on real incomes from high inflation, the tightening of monetary policy in most countries, Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and the COVID containment measures and other policy challenges in China.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia is the highest it has been since the early 1990s and is expected to increase further over the months ahead. Global factors explain much of the increase in inflation, but domestic factors are also playing a role. There are widespread upward pressures on prices from strong demand, a tight labour market and capacity constraints in some sectors of the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is expected to peak later this year and then decline back towards the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range. The expected moderation in inflation reflects the ongoing resolution of global supply-side problems, recent declines in some commodity prices and the impact of rising interest rates. Medium-term inflation expectations remain well anchored, and it is important that this remains the case. The Bank's central forecast is for CPI inflation to be around 7\'be\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022, a little above 4\'a0per\'a0cent over 2023 and around 3\'a0per\'a0cent over 2024.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is continuing to grow solidly and national income is being boosted by a record level of the terms of trade. The labour market is very tight and many firms are having difficulty hiring workers. The unemployment rate declined further in July to 3.4\'a0per\'a0cent, the lowest rate in almost 50\'a0years. Job vacancies and job ads are both at very high levels, suggesting a further decline in the unemployment rate over the months ahead. Beyond that, some increase in the unemployment rate is expected as economic growth slows.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wages growth has picked up from the low rates of recent years and there are some pockets where labour costs are increasing briskly. Given the tight labour market and the upstream price pressures, the Board will continue to pay close attention to both the evolution of labour costs and the price-setting behaviour of firms in the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 An important source of uncertainty continues to be the behaviour of household spending. Higher inflation and higher interest rates are putting pressure on household budgets, with the full effects of higher interest rates yet to be felt in mortgage payments. Consumer confidence has also fallen and housing prices are declining in most markets after the earlier large increases. Working in the other direction, people are finding jobs, gaining more hours of work and receiving higher wages. Many households have also built up large financial buffers and the saving rate remains higher than it was before the pandemic. The Board will be paying close attention to how these various factors balance out as it assesses the appropriate setting of monetary policy.\cb1 \
\cb2 The further increase in interest rates today will help bring inflation back to target and create a more sustainable balance of demand and supply in the Australian economy. Price stability is a prerequisite for a strong economy and a sustained period of full employment. The Board expects to increase interest rates further over the months ahead, but it is not on a pre-set path. The size and timing of future interest rate increases will be guided by the incoming data and the Board's assessment of the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board is committed to doing what is necessary to ensure that inflation in Australia returns to target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate target by 50\'a0basis points to 1.85\'a0per\'a0cent. It also increased the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances by 50\'a0basis points to 1.75\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board places a high priority on the return of inflation to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range over time, while keeping the economy on an even keel. The path to achieve this balance is a narrow one and clouded in uncertainty, not least because of global developments. The outlook for global economic growth has been downgraded due to pressures on real incomes from higher inflation, the tightening of monetary policy in most countries, Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the COVID containment measures in China.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia is the highest it has been since the early 1990s. In headline terms, inflation was 6.1\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to the June quarter; in underlying terms it was 4.9\'a0per\'a0cent. Global factors explain much of the increase in inflation, but domestic factors are also playing a role. There are widespread upward pressures on prices from strong demand, a tight labour market and capacity constraints in some sectors of the economy. The floods this year are also affecting some prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is expected to peak later this year and then decline back towards the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range. The expected moderation in inflation reflects the ongoing resolution of global supply-side problems, the stabilisation of commodity prices and the impact of rising interest rates. Medium-term inflation expectations remain well anchored, and it is important that this remains the case. The Bank's central forecast is for CPI inflation to be around 7\'be\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022, a little above 4\'a0per\'a0cent over 2023 and around 3\'a0per\'a0cent over 2024.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is expected to continue to grow strongly this year, with the pace of growth then slowing. Employment is growing strongly, consumer spending has been resilient and an upswing in business investment is underway. National income is also being boosted by a rise in the terms of trade, which are at a record high. The Bank's central forecast is for GDP growth of 3\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022 and 1\'be\'a0per\'a0cent in each of the following two years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market remains tighter than it has been for many years. The unemployment rate declined further in June to 3.5\'a0per\'a0cent, the lowest rate in almost 50\'a0years. Job vacancies and job ads are both at very high levels and a further decline in unemployment is expected over the months ahead. Beyond that, some increase in unemployment is expected as economic growth slows. The Bank's central forecast is for the unemployment rate to be around 4\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of 2024. Our liaison program and business surveys continue to point to a lift in wages growth from the low rates of recent years as firms compete for staff in the tight labour market.\cb1 \
\cb2 A key source of uncertainty continues to be the behaviour of household spending. Higher inflation and higher interest rates are putting pressure on household budgets. Consumer confidence has also fallen and housing prices are declining in some markets after the large increases in recent years. Working in the other direction, people are finding jobs and obtaining more hours of work. Many households have also built up large financial buffers and the saving rate remains higher than it was before the pandemic. The Board will be paying close attention to how these various factors balance out as it assesses the appropriate setting of monetary policy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Today's increase in interest rates is a further step in the normalisation of monetary conditions in Australia. The increase in interest rates over recent months has been required to bring inflation back to target and to create a more sustainable balance of demand and supply in the Australian economy. The Board expects to take further steps in the process of normalising monetary conditions over the months ahead, but it is not on a pre-set path. The size and timing of future interest rate increases will be guided by the incoming data and the Board's assessment of the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board is committed to doing what is necessary to ensure that inflation in Australia returns to target over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 \
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate target by 50\'a0basis points to 1.35\'a0per\'a0cent. It also increased the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances by 50\'a0basis points to 1.25\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global inflation is high. It is being boosted by COVID-related disruptions to supply chains, the war in Ukraine and strong demand which is putting pressure on productive capacity. Monetary policy globally is responding to this higher inflation, although it will be some time yet before inflation returns to target in most countries.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia is also high, but not as high as it is in many other countries. Global factors account for much of the increase in inflation in Australia, but domestic factors are also playing a role. Strong demand, a tight labour market and capacity constraints in some sectors are contributing to the upward pressure on prices. The floods are also affecting some prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is forecast to peak later this year and then decline back towards the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range next year. As global supply-side problems continue to ease and commodity prices stabilise, even if at a high level, inflation is expected to moderate. Higher interest rates will also help establish a more sustainable balance between the demand for and the supply of goods and services. Medium-term inflation expectations remain well anchored and it is important that this remains the case. A full set of updated forecasts will be published next month following the release of the June quarter CPI.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy remains resilient and the labour market is tighter than it has been for some time. The unemployment rate was steady at 3.9\'a0per\'a0cent in May, the lowest rate in almost 50\'a0years. Underemployment has also fallen significantly. Job vacancies and job ads are both at very high levels and a further decline in unemployment and underemployment is expected over the months ahead. The Bank's business liaison program and business surveys continue to point to a lift in wages growth from the low rates of recent years as firms compete for staff in the tight labour market.\cb1 \
\cb2 One source of ongoing uncertainty about the economic outlook is the behaviour of household spending. The recent spending data have been positive, although household budgets are under pressure from higher prices and higher interest rates. Housing prices have also declined in some markets over recent months after the large increases of recent years. The household saving rate remains higher than it was before the pandemic and many households have built up large financial buffers and are benefiting from stronger income growth. The Board will be paying close attention to these various influences on household spending as it assesses the appropriate setting of monetary policy.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board will also be paying close attention to the global outlook, which remains clouded by the war in Ukraine and its effect on the prices for energy and agricultural commodities. Real household incomes are under pressure in many economies and financial conditions are tightening, as central banks increase interest rates. There are also ongoing uncertainties related to COVID, especially in China.\cb1 \
\cb2 Today's increase in interest rates is a further step in the withdrawal of the extraordinary monetary support that was put in place to help insure the Australian economy against the worst possible effects of the pandemic. The resilience of the economy and the higher inflation mean that this extraordinary support is no longer needed. The Board expects to take further steps in the process of normalising monetary conditions in Australia over the months ahead. The size and timing of future interest rate increases will be guided by the incoming data and the Board's assessment of the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board is committed to doing what is necessary to ensure that inflation in Australia returns to target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate target by 50\'a0basis points to 85\'a0basis points. It also increased the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances by 50\'a0basis points to 75\'a0basis points.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has increased significantly. While inflation is lower than in most other advanced economies, it is higher than earlier expected. Global factors, including COVID-related disruptions to supply chains and the war in Ukraine, account for much of this increase in inflation. But domestic factors are playing a role too, with capacity constraints in some sectors and the tight labour market contributing to the upward pressure on prices. The floods earlier this year have also affected some prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is expected to increase further, but then decline back towards the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range next year. Higher prices for electricity and gas and recent increases in petrol prices mean that, in the near term, inflation is likely to be higher than was expected a month ago. As the global supply-side problems are resolved and commodity prices stabilise, even if at a high level, inflation is expected to moderate. Today's increase in interest rates will assist with the return of inflation to target over time.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is resilient, growing by 0.8\'a0per\'a0cent in the March quarter and 3.3\'a0per\'a0cent over the year. Household and business balance sheets are generally in good shape, an upswing in business investment is underway and there is a large pipeline of construction work to be completed. Macroeconomic policy settings are supportive of growth and national income is being boosted by higher commodity prices. The terms of trade are at a record high.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market is also strong. Employment has grown significantly and the unemployment rate is 3.9\'a0per\'a0cent, which is the lowest rate in almost 50\'a0years. Job vacancies and job ads are at high levels and a further decline in unemployment and underemployment is expected. The Bank's business liaison program continues to point to a lift in wages growth from the low rates of recent years as firms compete for staff in a tight labour market.\cb1 \
\cb2 One source of uncertainty about the economic outlook is how household spending evolves, given the increasing pressure on Australian households' budgets from higher inflation. Interest rates are also increasing. Housing prices have declined in some markets over recent months but remain more than 25\'a0per\'a0cent higher than prior to the pandemic, supporting household wealth and spending. The household saving rate also remains higher than it was before the pandemic and many households have built up large financial buffers. While the central scenario is for strong household consumption growth this year, the Board will be paying close attention to these various influences on consumption as it assesses the appropriate setting of monetary policy.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board will also be paying close attention to the global outlook, which remains clouded by the war in Ukraine and its effect on the prices for energy and agricultural commodities. Real household incomes are under pressure in many economies and financial conditions are tightening, as central banks withdraw monetary policy support in response to broad-based inflation. There are also ongoing uncertainties related to COVID, especially in China.\cb1 \
\cb2 Today's increase in interest rates by the Board is a further step in the withdrawal of the extraordinary monetary support that was put in place to help the Australian economy during the pandemic. The resilience of the economy and the higher inflation mean that this extraordinary support is no longer needed. Given the current inflation pressures in the economy, and the still very low level of interest rates, the Board decided to move by 50\'a0basis points today. The Board expects to take further steps in the process of normalising monetary conditions in Australia over the months ahead. The size and timing of future interest rate increases will be guided by the incoming data and the Board's assessment of the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board is committed to doing what is necessary to ensure that inflation in Australia returns to target over time.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate target by 25\'a0basis points to 35\'a0basis points. It also increased the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances from zero per\'a0cent to 25\'a0basis points.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board judged that now was the right time to begin withdrawing some of the extraordinary monetary support that was put in place to help the Australian economy during the pandemic. The economy has proven to be resilient and inflation has picked up more quickly, and to a higher level, than was expected. There is also evidence that wages growth is picking up. Given this, and the very low level of interest rates, it is appropriate to start the process of normalising monetary conditions.\cb1 \
\cb2 The resilience of the Australian economy is particularly evident in the labour market, with the unemployment rate declining over recent months to 4\'a0per\'a0cent and labour force participation increasing to a record high. Both job vacancies and job ads are also at high levels. The central forecast is for the unemployment rate to decline to around 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent by early 2023 and remain around this level thereafter. This would be the lowest rate of unemployment in almost 50\'a0years.\cb1 \
\cb2 The outlook for economic growth in Australia also remains positive, although there are ongoing uncertainties about the global economy arising from: the ongoing disruptions from COVID-19, especially in China; the war in Ukraine; and declining consumer purchasing power from higher inflation. The central forecast is for Australian GDP to grow by 4\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022 and 2\'a0per\'a0cent over 2023. Household and business balance sheets are generally in good shape, an upswing in business investment is underway and there is a large pipeline of construction work to be completed. Macroeconomic policy settings remain supportive of growth and national income is being boosted by higher commodity prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has picked up significantly and by more than expected, although it remains lower than in most other advanced economies. Over the year to the March quarter, headline inflation was 5.1\'a0per\'a0cent and in underlying terms inflation was 3.7\'a0per\'a0cent. This rise in inflation largely reflects global factors. But domestic capacity constraints are increasingly playing a role and inflation pressures have broadened, with firms more prepared to pass through cost increases to consumer prices. A further rise in inflation is expected in the near term, but as supply-side disruptions are resolved, inflation is expected to decline back towards the target range of 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent. The central forecast for 2022 is for headline inflation of around 6\'a0per\'a0cent and underlying inflation of around 4\'be\'a0per\'a0cent; by mid\'a02024, headline and underlying inflation are forecast to have moderated to around 3\'a0per\'a0cent. These forecasts are based on an assumption of further increases in interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Bank's business liaison suggests that wages growth has been picking up. In a tight labour market, an increasing number of firms are paying higher wages to attract and retain staff, especially in an environment where the cost of living is rising. While aggregate wages growth was subdued during 2021 and no higher than it was prior to the pandemic, the more timely evidence from liaison and business surveys is that larger wage increases are now occurring in many private-sector firms.\cb1 \
\cb2 Given both the progress towards full employment and the evidence on prices and wages, some withdrawal of the extraordinary monetary support provided through the pandemic is appropriate. Consistent with this, the Board does not plan to reinvest the proceeds of maturing government bonds and expects the Bank's balance sheet to decline significantly over the next couple of years as the Term Funding Facility comes to an end. The Board is not currently planning to sell the government bonds that the Bank purchased during the pandemic.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to doing what is necessary to ensure that inflation in Australia returns to target over time. This will require a further lift in interest rates over the period ahead. The Board will continue to closely monitor the incoming information and evolving balance of risks as it determines the timing and extent of future interest rate increases.\cb1 \
\cb2 A media and markets briefing, including a question and answer session, will be held at 4pm AEST today with the audio broadcast live on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.rba.gov.au/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 www.rba.gov.au}}.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the cash rate target at 10\'a0basis points and the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances at zero per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has increased sharply in many parts of the world. Ongoing supply-side problems, Russia's invasion of Ukraine and strong demand as economies recover from the pandemic are all contributing to the upward pressure on prices. In response, bond yields have risen and expectations of future policy interest rates have increased.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy remains resilient and spending is picking up following the Omicron setback. Household and business balance sheets are in generally good shape, an upswing in business investment is underway and there is a large pipeline of construction work to be completed. Macroeconomic policy settings also remain supportive of growth and national income is being boosted by higher commodity prices. At the same time, rising prices are putting pressure on household budgets and the floods are causing hardship for many communities.\cb1 \
\cb2 The strength of the Australian economy is evident in the labour market, with the unemployment rate falling further to 4\'a0per\'a0cent in February. Underemployment is also at its lowest level in many years. Job vacancies and job ads are at high levels and point to continuing strong growth in employment over the months ahead. The RBA's central forecast is for the unemployment rate to fall to below 4\'a0per\'a0cent this year and to remain below 4\'a0per\'a0cent next year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wages growth has picked up, but, at the aggregate level, is only around the relatively low rates prevailing before the pandemic. There are, however, some areas where larger wage increases are occurring. Given the tightness of the labour market, a further pick-up in aggregate wages growth and broader measures of labour costs is in prospect. This pick-up is still expected to be only gradual, although there is uncertainty about the behaviour of labour costs at historically low levels of unemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has increased in Australia, but it remains lower than in many other countries; in underlying terms, inflation is 2.6\'a0per\'a0cent and in headline terms it is 3.5\'a0per\'a0cent. Higher prices for petrol and other commodities will result in a further lift in inflation over coming quarters, with an updated set of forecasts to be published in May. The main sources of uncertainty relate to the speed of resolution of the various supply-side issues, developments in global energy markets and the evolution of overall labour costs.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions in Australia continue to be highly accommodative. Interest rates remain at a very low level, although fixed mortgage rates for new loans have risen recently. The Australian dollar exchange rate has appreciated due to the higher commodity prices and, in TWI terms, is around the level of a year ago. Housing prices have risen strongly over the past year, although some housing markets have eased recently. With interest rates at historically low levels, it is important that lending standards are maintained and that borrowers have adequate buffers.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board's policies during the pandemic have supported progress towards the objectives of full employment and inflation consistent with the target. The Board has wanted to see actual evidence that inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range before it increases interest rates. Inflation has picked up and a further increase is expected, but growth in labour costs has been below rates that are likely to be consistent with inflation being sustainably at target. Over coming months, important additional evidence will be available to the Board on both inflation and the evolution of labour costs. The Board will assess this and other incoming information as its sets policy to support full employment in Australia and inflation outcomes consistent with the target.\cb1 \
\cb2 \
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the cash rate target at 10\'a0basis points and the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances at zero per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 The global economy is continuing to recover from the pandemic. However, the war in Ukraine is a major new source of uncertainty. Inflation in parts of the world has increased sharply due to large increases in energy prices and disruptions to supply chains at a time of strong demand. The prices of many commodities have increased further due to the war in Ukraine. Bond yields have risen over the past month and expectations of future policy interest rates have increased.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy remains resilient and spending is picking up following the Omicron setback. Household and business balance sheets are in generally good shape, an upswing in business investment is underway and there is a large pipeline of construction work to be completed. Macroeconomic policy settings remain supportive of growth.\cb1 \
\cb2 The resilience of the economy is evident in the labour market, with the unemployment rate at a 14-year low of 4.2\'a0per\'a0cent. Underemployment is also around its lowest level since 2008. Hours worked declined significantly in January due to the Omicron outbreak, but the decline in infection rates and high numbers of job vacancies point to a strong bounce-back over the months ahead. The RBA's central forecast is for the unemployment rate to fall to below 4\'a0per\'a0cent later in the year and to remain below 4\'a0per\'a0cent next year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wages growth has picked up but, at the aggregate level, is only around the relatively low rates prevailing before the pandemic. A further pick-up in wages growth and broader measures of labour costs is expected as the labour market tightens. This pick-up is still expected to be only gradual, although there is uncertainty about the behaviour of labour costs at historically low levels of unemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has picked up more quickly than the RBA had expected, but remains lower than in many other countries. The central forecast is for underlying inflation to increase further in coming quarters to around 3\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent, before declining to around 2\'be\'a0per\'a0cent over 2023 as the supply-side problems are resolved and consumption patterns normalise. The CPI inflation rate will spike higher than this due to the higher petrol prices resulting from global developments. How long it takes to resolve the disruptions to supply chains is an important source of uncertainty regarding the inflation outlook, as are developments in global energy markets.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions in Australia continue to be highly accommodative. Interest rates remain at a very low level, although some fixed rates have risen recently. The Australian dollar exchange rate is around its lows of the past year or so. Housing prices have risen strongly, although the rate of increase has eased in some cities. With interest rates at historically low levels, it is important that lending standards are maintained and that borrowers have adequate buffers.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to maintaining highly supportive monetary conditions to achieve its objectives of a return to full employment in Australia and inflation consistent with the target. The Board will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. While inflation has picked up, it is too early to conclude that it is sustainably within the target range. There are uncertainties about how persistent the pick-up in inflation will be given recent developments in global energy markets and ongoing supply-side problems. At the same time, wages growth remains modest and it is likely to be some time yet before growth in labour costs is at a rate consistent with inflation being sustainably at target. The Board is prepared to be patient as it monitors how the various factors affecting inflation in Australia evolve.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to maintain the cash rate target at 10\'a0basis points and the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances at zero per\'a0cent. It also decided to cease further purchases under the bond purchase program, with the final purchases to take place on 10\'a0February.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Omicron outbreak has affected the economy, but it has not derailed the economic recovery. The Australian economy remains resilient and spending is expected to pick up as case numbers trend lower. The RBA's central forecast is for GDP growth of around 4\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent over 2022 and 2\'a0per\'a0cent over 2023. This outlook is supported by household and business balance sheets that are in generally good shape, an upswing in business investment, a large pipeline of construction work and supportive macroeconomic policy settings. The main source of uncertainty continues to be the pandemic.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market has recovered strongly, with the unemployment rate declining to 4.2\'a0per\'a0cent in December. Hours worked are estimated to have declined significantly in January due to the Omicron outbreak, but high numbers of job vacancies suggest further gains in employment over the months ahead. The RBA's central forecast is for the unemployment rate to fall to below 4\'a0per\'a0cent later in the year and to be around 3\'be\'a0per\'a0cent at the end of 2023.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wages growth has picked up but, at the aggregate level, has only returned to the relatively low rates prevailing before the pandemic. A further pick-up in wages growth is expected as the labour market tightens. This pick-up is still expected to be only gradual, although there is uncertainty about the behaviour of wages at historically low levels of unemployment.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation has picked up more quickly than the RBA had expected, but remains lower than in many other countries. The headline CPI inflation rate is 3.5\'a0per\'a0cent and is being affected by higher petrol prices, higher prices for newly constructed homes and the disruptions to global supply chains. In underlying terms, inflation is 2.6\'a0per\'a0cent. The central forecast is for underlying inflation to increase further in coming quarters to around 3\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent, before declining to around 2\'be\'a0per\'a0cent over 2023 as the supply-side problems are resolved and consumption patterns normalise. One source of uncertainty is the persistence of the disruptions to supply chains and distribution networks and their ongoing effects on prices. It is also uncertain how consumption patterns will evolve and how this will affect the balance of supply and demand, and hence prices.\cb1 \
\cb2 Financial conditions in Australia remain highly accommodative. Together, the RBA's bond purchase program, the funding provided under the Term Funding Facility and the low level of interest rates are providing important support to the Australian economy as it recovers from the effects of the pandemic. The Australian dollar exchange rate is around its lows of the past year or so. Housing prices have risen strongly, although the rate of increase has eased in some cities. With interest rates at historically low levels, it is important that lending standards are maintained and that borrowers have adequate buffers.\cb1 \
\cb2 The decision to end purchases under the bond purchase program follows a review of the actions of other central banks, the functioning of Australia's bond market and the progress towards the goals of full employment and inflation consistent with the target. Many other central banks have ended, or will soon end, their bond purchase programs. More importantly, faster-than-expected progress has been made towards the RBA's goals and further progress is likely. In these circumstances, the Board judged that now was the right time to end the bond purchase program. Since the start of the pandemic, the RBA's balance sheet has more than tripled to around $640\'a0billion, with this expansion providing continuing support to the economy. The Board will consider the issue of the reinvestment of the proceeds of future bond maturities at its meeting in May.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is committed to maintaining highly supportive monetary conditions to achieve its objectives of a return to full employment in Australia and inflation consistent with the target. Ceasing purchases under the bond purchase program does not imply a near-term increase in interest rates. As the Board has stated previously, it will not increase the cash rate until actual inflation is sustainably within the 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent target range. While inflation has picked up, it is too early to conclude that it is sustainably within the target band. There are uncertainties about how persistent the pick-up in inflation will be as supply-side problems are resolved. Wages growth also remains modest and it is likely to be some time yet before aggregate wages growth is at a rate consistent with inflation being sustainably at target. The Board is prepared to be patient as it monitors how the various factors affecting inflation in Australia evolve.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate target unchanged at 4.35\'a0per\'a0cent and the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances unchanged at 4.25\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Last month, the Board increased interest rates by 25\'a0basis points, following a period of four months where it had held interest rates steady. This decision reflected the Board\'92s view that progress in bringing inflation back to the target range of 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent was looking slower than earlier forecast. While the economy has been experiencing a period of below-trend growth, it was stronger than expected over the first half of the year. Underlying inflation was higher than expected at the time of the August forecasts, including across a broad range of services. Conditions in the labour market had eased but remained tight. Housing prices were continuing to rise across the country as was the number of new mortgages. Given this, the Board judged that the risk of inflation remaining higher for longer had risen and an increase in interest rates was therefore warranted to be more assured that inflation would return to target in a reasonable timeframe.\cb1 \
\cb2 The limited information received on the domestic economy since the November meeting has been broadly in line with expectations. The monthly CPI indicator for October suggested that inflation is continuing to moderate, driven by the goods sector; the inflation update did not, however, provide much more information on services inflation. Overall, measures of inflation expectations remain consistent with the inflation target. Wages growth picked up in the September quarter but this was expected given that it captured the earlier Fair Work Commission decision on award wages. Wages growth is not expected to increase much further and remains consistent with the inflation target, provided productivity growth picks up. Conditions in the labour market also continued to ease gradually, although they remain tight.\cb1 \
\cb2 Higher interest rates are working to establish a more sustainable balance between aggregate supply and demand in the economy. The impact of the more recent rate rises, including last month's, will continue to flow through the economy. High inflation is weighing on people\'92s real incomes and household consumption growth is weak, as is dwelling investment. Holding the cash rate steady at this meeting will allow time to assess the impact of the increases in interest rates on demand, inflation and the labour market.\cb1 \
\cb2 Returning inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe remains the Board\'92s priority. High inflation makes life difficult for everyone and damages the functioning of the economy. It erodes the value of savings, hurts household budgets, makes it harder for businesses to plan and invest, and worsens income inequality. And if high inflation were to become entrenched in people\'92s expectations, it would be much more costly to reduce later, involving even higher interest rates and a larger rise in unemployment. To date, medium-term inflation expectations have been consistent with the inflation target and it is important that this remains the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are still significant uncertainties around the outlook. While there have been encouraging signs on goods inflation abroad, services price inflation has remained persistent and the same could occur in Australia. There also remains a high level of uncertainty around the outlook for the Chinese economy and the implications of the conflicts abroad. Domestically, there are uncertainties regarding the lags in the effect of monetary policy and how firms\'92 pricing decisions and wages will respond to the slower growth in the economy at a time when the labour market remains tight. The outlook for household consumption also remains uncertain, with many households experiencing a painful squeeze on their finances, while some are benefiting from rising housing prices, substantial savings buffers and higher interest income.\cb1 \
\cb2 Whether further tightening of monetary policy is required to ensure that inflation returns to target in a reasonable timeframe will depend upon the data and the evolving assessment of risks. In making its decisions, the Board will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in domestic demand, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that outcome.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to raise the cash rate target by 25\'a0basis points to 4.35\'a0per\'a0cent. It also increased the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances by 25\'a0basis points to 4.25\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has passed its peak but is still too high and is proving more persistent than expected a few months ago. The latest reading on CPI inflation indicates that while goods price inflation has eased further, the prices of many services are continuing to rise briskly. While the central forecast is for CPI inflation to continue to decline, progress looks to be slower than earlier expected. CPI inflation is now expected to be around 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent by the end of 2024 and at the top of the target range of 2\'a0to 3\'a0per\'a0cent by the end of 2025. The Board judged an increase in interest rates was warranted today to be more assured that inflation would return to target in a reasonable timeframe.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board had held interest rates steady since June following an increase of 4\'a0percentage points since May last year. It had judged that higher interest rates were working to establish a more sustainable balance between supply and demand in the economy. Furthermore, it had noted that the impact of the more recent rate rises would continue to flow through the economy. It had therefore decided that it was appropriate to hold rates steady to provide time to assess the impact of the increase in interest rates so far. In particular, the Board had indicated that it would be paying close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in household spending, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market.\cb1 \
\cb2 Since its August meeting, the Board has received updated information on inflation, the labour market, economic activity and the revised set of forecasts. The weight of this information suggests that the risk of inflation remaining higher for longer has increased. While the economy is experiencing a period of below-trend growth, it has been stronger than expected over the first half of the year. Underlying inflation was higher than expected at the time of the August forecasts, including across a broad range of services. Conditions in the labour market have eased but they remain tight. Housing prices are continuing to rise across the country.\cb1 \
\cb2 At the same time, high inflation is weighing on people\'92s real incomes and household consumption growth is weak, as is dwelling investment. Given that the economy is forecast to grow below trend, employment is expected to grow slower than the labour force and the unemployment rate is expected to rise gradually to around 4\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent. This is a more moderate increase than previously forecast. Wages growth has picked up over the past year but is still consistent with the inflation target, provided that productivity growth picks up.\cb1 \
\cb2 Returning inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe remains the Board\'92s priority. High inflation makes life difficult for everyone and damages the functioning of the economy. It erodes the value of savings, hurts household budgets, makes it harder for businesses to plan and invest, and worsens income inequality. And if high inflation were to become entrenched in people\'92s expectations, it would be much more costly to reduce later, involving even higher interest rates and a larger rise in unemployment. To date, medium-term inflation expectations have been consistent with the inflation target and it is important that this remains the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are still significant uncertainties around the outlook. Services price inflation has been surprisingly persistent overseas and the same could occur in Australia. There are uncertainties regarding the lags in the effect of monetary policy and how firms\'92 pricing decisions and wages will respond to the slower growth in the economy at a time when the labour market remains tight. The outlook for household consumption also remains uncertain, with many households experiencing a painful squeeze on their finances, while some are benefiting from rising housing prices, substantial savings buffers and higher interest income. And globally, there remains a high level of uncertainty around the outlook for the Chinese economy and the implications of the conflicts abroad.\cb1 \
\cb2 Whether further tightening of monetary policy is required to ensure that inflation returns to target in a reasonable timeframe will depend upon the data and the evolving assessment of risks. In making its decisions, the Board will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in domestic demand, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that outcome.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate target unchanged at 4.10\'a0per\'a0cent and the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances unchanged at 4.00\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates have been increased by 4\'a0percentage points since May last year. The higher interest rates are working to establish a more sustainable balance between supply and demand in the economy and will continue to do so. In light of this and the uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook, the Board again decided to hold interest rates steady this month. This will provide further time to assess the impact of the increase in interest rates to date and the economic outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has passed its peak but is still too high and will remain so for some time yet. Timely indicators on inflation suggest that goods price inflation has eased further, but the prices of many services are continuing to rise briskly and fuel prices have risen noticeably of late. Rent inflation also remains elevated. The central forecast is for CPI inflation to continue to decline and to be back within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range in late 2025.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the Australian economy was a little stronger than expected over the first half of the year. But the economy is still experiencing a period of below-trend growth and this is expected to continue for a while. High inflation is weighing on people\'92s real incomes and household consumption growth is weak, as is dwelling investment. Notwithstanding this, conditions in the labour market remain tight, although they have eased a little. Given that the economy and employment are forecast to grow below trend, the unemployment rate is expected to rise gradually to around 4\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent late next year. Wages growth has picked up over the past year but is still consistent with the inflation target, provided that productivity growth picks up.\cb1 \
\cb2 Returning inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe remains the Board\'92s priority. High inflation makes life difficult for everyone and damages the functioning of the economy. It erodes the value of savings, hurts household budgets, makes it harder for businesses to plan and invest, and worsens income inequality. And if high inflation were to become entrenched in people\'92s expectations, it would be very costly to reduce later, involving even higher interest rates and a larger rise in unemployment. To date, medium-term inflation expectations have been consistent with the inflation target and it is important that this remains the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent data are consistent with inflation returning to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range over the forecast period and with output and employment continuing to grow. Inflation is coming down, the labour market remains strong and the economy is operating at a high level of capacity utilisation, although growth has slowed.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are significant uncertainties around the outlook. Services price inflation has been surprisingly persistent overseas and the same could occur in Australia. There are also uncertainties regarding the lags in the effect of monetary policy and how firms\'92 pricing decisions and wages respond to the slower growth in the economy at a time when the labour market remains tight. The outlook for household consumption also remains uncertain, with many households experiencing a painful squeeze on their finances, while some are benefiting from rising housing prices, substantial savings buffers and higher interest income. And globally, there remains a high level of uncertainty around the outlook for the Chinese economy due to ongoing stresses in the property market.\cb1 \
\cb2 Some further tightening of monetary policy may be required to ensure that inflation returns to target in a reasonable timeframe, but that will continue to depend upon the data and the evolving assessment of risks. In making its decisions, the Board will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in household spending, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that outcome.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate target unchanged at 4.10\'a0per\'a0cent and the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances unchanged at 4.00\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates have been increased by 4\'a0percentage points since May last year. The higher interest rates are working to establish a more sustainable balance between supply and demand in the economy and will continue to do so. In light of this and the uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook, the Board again decided to hold interest rates steady this month. This will provide further time to assess the impact of the increase in interest rates to date and the economic outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has passed its peak and the monthly CPI indicator for July showed a further decline. But inflation is still too high and will remain so for some time yet. While goods price inflation has eased, the prices of many services are rising briskly. Rent inflation is also elevated. The central forecast is for CPI inflation to continue to decline and to be back within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range in late 2025.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is experiencing a period of below-trend growth and this is expected to continue for a while. High inflation is weighing on people\'92s real incomes and household consumption growth is weak, as is dwelling investment. Notwithstanding this, conditions in the labour market remain tight, although they have eased a little. Given that the economy and employment are forecast to grow below trend, the unemployment rate is expected to rise gradually to around 4\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent late next year. Wages growth has picked up over the past year but is still consistent with the inflation target, provided that productivity growth picks up.\cb1 \
\cb2 Returning inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe remains the Board\'92s priority. High inflation makes life difficult for everyone and damages the functioning of the economy. It erodes the value of savings, hurts household budgets, makes it harder for businesses to plan and invest, and worsens income inequality. And if high inflation were to become entrenched in people\'92s expectations, it would be very costly to reduce later, involving even higher interest rates and a larger rise in unemployment. To date, medium-term inflation expectations have been consistent with the inflation target and it is important that this remains the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent data are consistent with inflation returning to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range over the forecast horizon and with output and employment continuing to grow. Inflation is coming down, the labour market remains strong and the economy is operating at a high level of capacity utilisation, although growth has slowed.\cb1 \
\cb2 There are significant uncertainties around the outlook. Services price inflation has been surprisingly persistent overseas and the same could occur in Australia. There are also uncertainties regarding the lags in the effect of monetary policy and how firms\'92 pricing decisions and wages respond to the slower growth in the economy at a time when the labour market remains tight. The outlook for household consumption also remains uncertain, with many households experiencing a painful squeeze on their finances, while some are benefiting from rising housing prices, substantial savings buffers and higher interest income. And globally, there is increased uncertainty around the outlook for the Chinese economy due to ongoing stresses in the property market.\cb1 \
\cb2 Some further tightening of monetary policy may be required to ensure that inflation returns to target in a reasonable timeframe, but that will continue to depend upon the data and the evolving assessment of risks. In making its decisions, the Board will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in household spending, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate target unchanged at 4.10\'a0per\'a0cent and the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances unchanged at 4.00\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates have been increased by 4\'a0percentage points since May last year. The higher interest rates are working to establish a more sustainable balance between supply and demand in the economy and will continue to do so. In light of this and the uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook, the Board again decided to hold interest rates steady this month. This will provide further time to assess the impact of the increase in interest rates to date and the economic outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia is declining but is still too high at 6\'a0per\'a0cent. Goods price inflation has eased, but the prices of many services are rising briskly. Rent inflation is also elevated. The central forecast is for CPI inflation to continue to decline, to be around 3\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent by the end of 2024 and to be back within the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range in late 2025.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy is experiencing a period of below-trend growth and this is expected to continue for a while. Household consumption growth is weak, as is dwelling investment. The central forecast is for GDP growth of around 1\'be\'a0per\'a0cent over 2024 and a little above 2\'a0per\'a0cent over the following year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Conditions in the labour market remain very tight, although they have eased a little. Job vacancies and advertisements are still at very high levels, although firms report that labour shortages have lessened. With the economy and employment forecast to grow below trend, the unemployment rate is expected to rise gradually from its current rate of 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent to around 4\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent late next year. Wages growth has picked up in response to the tight labour market and high inflation. At the aggregate level, wages growth is still consistent with the inflation target, provided that productivity growth picks up.\cb1 \
\cb2 Returning inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe remains the Board\'92s priority. High inflation makes life difficult for everyone and damages the functioning of the economy. It erodes the value of savings, hurts household budgets, makes it harder for businesses to plan and invest, and worsens income inequality. And if high inflation were to become entrenched in people\'92s expectations, it would be very costly to reduce later, involving even higher interest rates and a larger rise in unemployment. To date, medium-term inflation expectations have been consistent with the inflation target and it is important that this remains the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent data are consistent with inflation returning to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range over the forecast horizon and with output and employment continuing to grow. There are though significant uncertainties. Services price inflation has been surprisingly persistent overseas and the same could occur in Australia. There are also uncertainties regarding the lags in the operation of monetary policy and how firms\'92 pricing decisions and wages will respond to the slowing in the economy at a time when the labour market remains tight. The outlook for household consumption is also an ongoing source of uncertainty. Many households are experiencing a painful squeeze on their finances, while some are benefiting from rising housing prices, substantial savings buffers and higher interest income. In aggregate, consumption growth has slowed substantially due to the combination of cost-of-living pressures and higher interest rates.\cb1 \
\cb2 Some further tightening of monetary policy may be required to ensure that inflation returns to target in a reasonable timeframe, but that will depend upon the data and the evolving assessment of risks. In making its decisions, the Board will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in household spending, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate target unchanged at 4.10\'a0per\'a0cent and the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances unchanged at 4.00\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Interest rates have been increased by 4\'a0percentage points since May last year. The higher interest rates are working to establish a more sustainable balance between supply and demand in the economy and will continue to do so. In light of this and the uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook, the Board decided to hold interest rates steady this month. This will provide some time to assess the impact of the increase in interest rates to date and the economic outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has passed its peak and the monthly CPI indicator for May showed a further decline. But inflation is still too high and will remain so for some time yet. High inflation makes life difficult for everyone and damages the functioning of the economy. It erodes the value of savings, hurts household budgets, makes it harder for businesses to plan and invest, and worsens income inequality. And if high inflation were to become entrenched in people\'92s expectations, it would be very costly to reduce later, involving even higher interest rates and a larger rise in unemployment. For these reasons, the Board\'92s priority is to return inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the Australian economy has slowed and conditions in the labour market have eased, although they remain very tight. Firms report that labour shortages have lessened, yet job vacancies and advertisements are still at very high levels. Labour force participation is at a record high and the unemployment rate remains close to a 50-year low. Wages growth has picked up in response to the tight labour market and high inflation. At the aggregate level, wages growth is still consistent with the inflation target, provided that productivity growth picks up.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board remains alert to the risk that expectations of ongoing high inflation will contribute to larger increases in both prices and wages, especially given the limited spare capacity in the economy and the still very low rate of unemployment. Accordingly, it will continue to pay close attention to both the evolution of labour costs and the price-setting behaviour of firms.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is still expecting the economy to grow as inflation returns to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range, but the path to achieving this balance is a narrow one. A significant source of uncertainty continues to be the outlook for household consumption. The combination of higher interest rates and cost-of-living pressures is leading to a substantial slowing in household spending. While housing prices are rising again and some households have substantial savings buffers, others are experiencing a painful squeeze on their finances. There are also uncertainties regarding the global economy, which is expected to grow at a below-average rate over the next couple of years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Some further tightening of monetary policy may be required to ensure that inflation returns to target in a reasonable timeframe, but that will depend upon how the economy and inflation evolve. The decision to hold interest rates steady this month provides the Board with more time to assess the state of the economy and the economic outlook and associated risks. In making its decisions, the Board will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in household spending, and the forecasts for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate target by 25\'a0basis points to 4.10\'a0per\'a0cent. It also increased the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances by 25\'a0basis points to 4.00\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has passed its peak, but at 7\'a0per\'a0cent is still too high and it will be some time yet before it is back in the target range. This further increase in interest rates is to provide greater confidence that inflation will return to target within a reasonable timeframe.\cb1 \
\cb2 High inflation makes life difficult for people and damages the functioning of the economy. It erodes the value of savings, hurts family budgets, makes it harder for businesses to plan and invest, and worsens income inequality. And if high inflation were to become entrenched in people\'92s expectations, it would be very costly to reduce later, involving even higher interest rates and a larger rise in unemployment. Recent data indicate that the upside risks to the inflation outlook have increased and the Board has responded to this. While goods price inflation is slowing, services price inflation is still very high and is proving to be very persistent overseas. Unit labour costs are also rising briskly, with productivity growth remaining subdued.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the Australian economy has slowed and conditions in the labour market have eased, although they remain very tight. The unemployment rate increased slightly to 3.7\'a0per\'a0cent in April and employment growth has moderated. Firms report that labour shortages have eased, although job vacancies and advertisements are still at very high levels.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wages growth has picked up in response to the tight labour market and high inflation. Growth in public sector wages is expected to pick up further and the annual increase in award wages was higher than it was last year. At the aggregate level, wages growth is still consistent with the inflation target, provided that productivity growth picks up.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board remains alert to the risk that expectations of ongoing high inflation contribute to larger increases in both prices and wages, especially given the limited spare capacity in the economy and the still very low rate of unemployment. Accordingly, it will continue to pay close attention to both the evolution of labour costs and the price-setting behaviour of firms.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is still seeking to keep the economy on an even keel as inflation returns to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range, but the path to achieving a soft landing remains a narrow one. A significant source of uncertainty continues to be the outlook for household consumption. The combination of higher interest rates and cost-of-living pressures is leading to a substantial slowing in household spending. Housing prices are rising again and some households have substantial savings buffers, although others are experiencing a painful squeeze on their finances. There are also uncertainties regarding the global economy, which is expected to grow at a below-average rate over the next couple of years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Some further tightening of monetary policy may be required to ensure that inflation returns to target in a reasonable timeframe, but that will depend upon how the economy and inflation evolve. The Board will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in household spending, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate target by 25\'a0basis points to 3.85\'a0per\'a0cent. It also increased the rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances by 25\'a0basis points to 3.75\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in Australia has passed its peak, but at 7\'a0per\'a0cent is still too high and it will be some time yet before it is back in the target range. Given the importance of returning inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe, the Board judged that a further increase in interest rates was warranted today.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board held interest rates steady last month to provide additional time to assess the state of the economy and the outlook. While the recent data showed a welcome decline in inflation, the central forecast remains that it takes a couple of years before inflation returns to the top of the target range; inflation is expected to be 4\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent in 2023 and 3\'a0per\'a0cent in mid-2025. Goods price inflation is clearly slowing due to a better balance of supply and demand following the resolution of the pandemic disruptions. But services price inflation is still very high and broadly based and the experience overseas points to upside risks. Unit labour costs are also rising briskly, with productivity growth remaining subdued.\cb1 \
\cb2 The recent Australian data also confirmed that the labour market remains very tight, with the unemployment rate at a near 50-year low. Many firms continue to experience difficulty hiring workers, although there has been some easing in labour shortages and the number of vacancies has declined a little.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board\'92s priority remains to return inflation to target. High inflation makes life difficult for people and damages the functioning of the economy. And if high inflation were to become entrenched in people\'92s expectations, it would be very costly to reduce later, involving even higher interest rates and a larger rise in unemployment. Medium-term inflation expectations remain well anchored, and it is important that this remains the case. Today\'92s further adjustment in interest rates will help in this regard.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wages growth has picked up in response to the tight labour market and high inflation. At the aggregate level, wages growth is still consistent with the inflation target, provided that productivity growth picks up. The Board remains alert to the risk that expectations of ongoing high inflation contribute to larger increases in both prices and wages, especially given the limited spare capacity in the economy and the historically low rate of unemployment. Accordingly, it will continue to pay close attention to both the evolution of labour costs and the price-setting behaviour of firms.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board is still seeking to keep the economy on an even keel as inflation returns to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range, but the path to achieving a soft landing remains a narrow one. The central forecast is for the economy to continue growing, albeit at a below-trend pace; GDP is forecast to increase by 1\'bc\'a0per\'a0cent this year and around 2\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to mid-2025. Given the expected below-trend growth in the economy, the unemployment rate is forecast to increase gradually to be around 4\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent in mid-2025.\cb1 \
\cb2 A significant source of uncertainty continues to be the outlook for household consumption. The combination of higher interest rates, cost-of-living pressures and the earlier decline in housing prices is leading to a substantial slowing in household spending. While some households have substantial savings buffers, others are experiencing a painful squeeze on their finances. There are also uncertainties regarding the global economy, which is expected to grow at a below-average rate over the next couple of years.\cb1 \
\cb2 Some further tightening of monetary policy may be required to ensure that inflation returns to target in a reasonable timeframe, but that will depend upon how the economy and inflation evolve. The Board will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in household spending and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate target unchanged at 3.60\'a0per\'a0cent and the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances unchanged at 3.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 This decision follows a cumulative increase in interest rates of 3\'bd\'a0percentage points since May last year. The Board recognises that monetary policy operates with a lag and that the full effect of this substantial increase in interest rates is yet to be felt. The Board took the decision to hold interest rates steady this month to provide additional time to assess the impact of the increase in interest rates to date and the economic outlook.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global inflation remains very high. In headline terms it is moderating, although services price inflation remains high in many economies. The outlook for the global economy remains subdued, with below-average growth expected this year and next. The recent banking system problems in the United States and Switzerland have resulted in volatility in financial markets and a reassessment of the outlook for global interest rates. These problems are also expected to lead to tighter financial conditions, which would be an additional headwind for the global economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian banking system is strong, well capitalised and highly liquid. It is well placed to provide the credit that the economy needs.\cb1 \
\cb2 A range of information, including the monthly CPI indicator, suggests that inflation has peaked in Australia. Goods price inflation is expected to moderate over the months ahead due to global developments and softer demand in Australia. Meanwhile, rents are increasing at the fastest rate in some years, with vacancy rates low in many parts of the country. The prices of utilities are also rising quickly. The central forecast is for inflation to decline this year and next, to around 3\'a0per\'a0cent in mid-2025. Medium-term inflation expectations remain well anchored, and it is important that this remains the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the Australian economy has slowed, with growth over the next couple of years expected to be below trend. There is further evidence that the combination of higher interest rates, cost-of-living pressures and a decline in housing prices is leading to a substantial slowing in household spending. While some households have substantial savings buffers, others are experiencing a painful squeeze on their finances.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market remains very tight. The unemployment rate is at a near 50-year low and underemployment is also low. Many firms continue to experience difficulty hiring workers, although some report an easing in labour shortages and the number of vacancies has declined a little. As economic growth slows, unemployment is expected to increase.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wages growth is continuing to increase in response to the tight labour market and higher inflation. At the aggregate level, wages growth is still consistent with the inflation target, provided that productivity growth picks up. The Board remains alert to the risk of a prices-wages spiral, given the limited spare capacity in the economy and the historically low rate of unemployment. Accordingly, it will continue to pay close attention to both the evolution of labour costs and the price-setting behaviour of firms.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board\'92s priority is to return inflation to target. High inflation makes life difficult for people and damages the functioning of the economy. And if high inflation were to become entrenched in people\'92s expectations, it would be very costly to reduce later, involving even higher interest rates and a larger rise in unemployment. The Board is seeking to return inflation to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range while keeping the economy on an even keel, but the path to achieving a soft landing remains a narrow one.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board expects that some further tightening of monetary policy may well be needed to ensure that inflation returns to target. The decision to hold interest rates steady this month provides the Board with more time to assess the state of the economy and the outlook, in an environment of considerable uncertainty. In assessing when and how much further interest rates need to increase, the Board will be paying close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in household spending and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate target by 25\'a0basis points to 3.60\'a0per\'a0cent. It also increased the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances by 25\'a0basis points to 3.50\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global inflation remains very high. In headline terms it is moderating, although services price inflation remains elevated in many economies. It will be some time before inflation is back to target rates. The outlook for the global economy remains subdued, with below average growth expected this year and next.\cb1 \
\cb2 The monthly CPI indicator suggests that inflation has peaked in Australia. Goods price inflation is expected to moderate over the months ahead due to both global developments and softer demand in Australia. Services price inflation remains high, with strong demand for some services over the summer. Rents are increasing at the fastest rate in some years, with vacancy rates low in many parts of the country. The central forecast is for inflation to decline this year and next, to be around 3\'a0per\'a0cent in mid-2025. Medium-term inflation expectations remain well anchored, and it is important that this remains the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 Growth in the Australian economy has slowed, with GDP increasing by 0.5\'a0per\'a0cent in the December quarter and 2.7\'a0per\'a0cent over the year. Growth over the next couple of years is expected to be below trend. Household consumption growth has slowed due to the tighter financial conditions and the outlook for housing construction has softened. In contrast, the outlook for business investment remains positive, with many businesses operating at a very high level of capacity utilisation.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market remains very tight, although conditions have eased a little. The unemployment rate remains at close to a 50-year low. Employment fell in January, but this partly reflects changing seasonal patterns in labour hiring. Many firms continue to experience difficulty hiring workers, although some report a recent easing in labour shortages. As economic growth slows, unemployment is expected to increase.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wages growth is continuing to pick up in response to the tight labour market and higher inflation. At the aggregate level, wages growth is still consistent with the inflation target and recent data suggest a lower risk of a cycle in which prices and wages chase one another. The Board, however, remains alert to the risk of a prices-wages spiral, given the limited spare capacity in the economy and the historically low rate of unemployment. Accordingly, it will continue to pay close attention to both the evolution of labour costs and the price-setting behaviour of firms.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board recognises that monetary policy operates with a lag and that the full effect of the cumulative increase in interest rates is yet to be felt in mortgage payments. There is uncertainty around the timing and extent of the slowdown in household spending. Some households have substantial savings buffers, but others are experiencing a painful squeeze on their budgets due to higher interest rates and the increase in the cost of living. Household balance sheets are also being affected by the decline in housing prices. Another source of uncertainty is how the global economy responds to the large and rapid increase in interest rates around the world. These uncertainties mean that there are a range of potential scenarios for the Australian economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board\'92s priority is to return inflation to target. High inflation makes life difficult for people and damages the functioning of the economy. And if high inflation were to become entrenched in people\'92s expectations, it would be very costly to reduce later, involving even higher interest rates and a larger rise in unemployment. The Board is seeking to return inflation to the 2\'963 per\'a0cent target range while keeping the economy on an even keel, but the path to achieving a soft landing remains a narrow one.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board expects that further tightening of monetary policy will be needed to ensure that inflation returns to target and that this period of high inflation is only temporary. In assessing when and how much further interest rates need to increase, the Board will be paying close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in household spending and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to increase the cash rate target by 25\'a0basis points to 3.35\'a0per\'a0cent. It also increased the interest rate on Exchange Settlement balances by 25\'a0basis points to 3.25\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\cb2 Global inflation remains very high. It is, however, moderating in response to lower energy prices, the resolution of supply-chain problems and the tightening of monetary policy. It will be some time, though, before inflation is back to target rates. The outlook for the global economy remains subdued, with below average growth expected this year and next.\cb1 \
\cb2 In Australia, CPI inflation over the year to the December quarter was 7.8\'a0per\'a0cent, the highest since 1990. In underlying terms, inflation was 6.9\'a0per\'a0cent, which was higher than expected. Global factors explain much of this high inflation, but strong domestic demand is adding to the inflationary pressures in a number of areas of the economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is expected to decline this year due to both global factors and slower growth in domestic demand. The central forecast is for CPI inflation to decline to 4\'be\'a0per\'a0cent this year and to around 3\'a0per\'a0cent by mid-2025. Medium-term inflation expectations remain well anchored, and it is important that this remains the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Australian economy grew strongly over 2022. The central forecast is little changed from three months ago, with GDP growth expected to slow to around 1\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over 2023 and 2024. The recovery in spending on services following the lifting of COVID restrictions has largely run its course and the tighter financial conditions will constrain spending more broadly.\cb1 \
\cb2 The labour market remains very tight. The unemployment rate has been steady at around 3\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent over recent months, the lowest rate since 1974. Job vacancies and job ads are both at very high levels, but have declined a little recently. Many firms continue to experience difficulty hiring workers, although some report a recent easing in labour shortages. As economic growth slows, unemployment is expected to increase. The central forecast is for the unemployment rate to increase to 3\'be\'a0per\'a0cent by the end of this year and 4\'bd\'a0per\'a0cent by mid-2025.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wages growth is continuing to pick up from the low rates of recent years and a further pick-up is expected due to the tight labour market and higher inflation. Given the importance of avoiding a prices-wages spiral, the Board will continue to pay close attention to both the evolution of labour costs and the price-setting behaviour of firms in the period ahead.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board recognises that monetary policy operates with a lag and that the full effect of the cumulative increase in interest rates is yet to be felt in mortgage payments. There is uncertainty around the timing and extent of the expected slowdown in household spending. Some households have substantial savings buffers, but others are experiencing a painful squeeze on their budgets due to higher interest rates and the increase in the cost of living. Household balance sheets are also being affected by the decline in housing prices. Another source of uncertainty is how the global economy responds to the large and rapid increase in interest rates around the world. These uncertainties mean that there are a range of potential scenarios for the Australian economy.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board\'92s priority is to return inflation to target. High inflation makes life difficult for people and damages the functioning of the economy. And if high inflation were to become entrenched in people\'92s expectations, it would be very costly to reduce later. The Board is seeking to return inflation to the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent range while keeping the economy on an even keel, but the path to achieving a soft landing remains a narrow one.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board expects that further increases in interest rates will be needed over the months ahead to ensure that inflation returns to target and that this period of high inflation is only temporary. In assessing how much further interest rates need to increase, the Board will be paying close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in household spending and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate target unchanged at 4.35\'a0per\'a0cent and the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances unchanged at 4.25\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 Inflation remains above target and is proving persistent.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 Inflation has fallen substantially since the peak in 2022, as higher interest rates have been working to bring aggregate demand and supply closer towards balance. But inflation is still some way above the midpoint of the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range. In underlying terms, as represented by the trimmed mean, inflation was 3.9\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to the June quarter, broadly as forecast in the May Statement on Monetary Policy (SMP). Headline inflation declined in July, as measured by the monthly CPI indicator. Headline inflation is expected to fall further temporarily, as a result of federal and state cost of living relief. However, our current forecasts do not see inflation returning sustainably to target until 2026. In year-ended terms, underlying inflation has been above the midpoint of the target for 11\'a0consecutive quarters and has fallen very little over the past year.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 The outlook remains highly uncertain.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 The central forecasts published in August were for underlying inflation to return to the target range of 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent late in 2025 and approach the midpoint in 2026. This reflected a judgement that the economy\'92s capacity to meet demand was somewhat weaker than previously thought, evidenced by the persistence of inflation and ongoing strength in the labour market.\cb1 \
\cb2 Since then, GDP data for the June quarter have confirmed that growth has been weak. Earlier declines in real disposable incomes and the ongoing effect of restrictive financial conditions continue to weigh on consumption, particularly discretionary consumption. However, growth in aggregate consumer demand, which includes spending by temporary residents such as students and tourists, remained more resilient.\cb1 \
\cb2 Wage pressures have eased somewhat but labour productivity is still only at 2016 levels, despite the pickup over the past year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Broader indicators suggest that labour market conditions remain tight, despite some signs of gradual easing. Over the three months to August, employment grew on average by 0.3\'a0per\'a0cent per month. The unemployment rate remained at 4.2\'a0per\'a0cent in August, up from the trough of 3.5\'a0per\'a0cent in mid-2023. But the participation rate remains at record highs, vacancies remain elevated and average hours worked have stabilised.\cb1 \
\cb2 Taken together, the latest data do not change the Board\'92s assessment at the August meeting that policy is currently restrictive and working broadly as anticipated. But there are uncertainties. The central projection is for household consumption growth to pick up in the second half of the year as the headwinds to income growth recede \'96 but there is a risk that this pickup is slower than expected, resulting in continued subdued output growth and a sharper deterioration in the labour market. More broadly, there are uncertainties regarding the lags in the effects of monetary policy and how firms\'92 pricing decisions and wages will respond to the slower growth in the economy at a time of excess demand, and while conditions in the labour market remain tight.\cb1 \
\cb2 There also remains a high level of uncertainty about the outlook abroad. Some central banks have eased policy, although they note that they are removing only some restrictiveness and remain alert to risks on both sides, namely weaker labour markets and stronger inflation. The outlook for the Chinese economy has softened and this has been reflected in commodity prices. Geopolitical uncertainties remain pronounced.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 Returning inflation to target is the priority.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 Sustainably returning inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe remains the Board\'92s highest priority. This is consistent with the RBA\'92s mandate for price stability and full employment. To date, longer term inflation expectations have been consistent with the inflation target and it is important that this remain the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 While headline inflation will decline for a time, underlying inflation is more indicative of inflation momentum, and it remains too high. The most recent projections in the August SMP show that it will be some time yet before inflation is sustainably in the target range. Data since then have reinforced the need to remain vigilant to upside risks to inflation and the Board is not ruling anything in or out. Policy will need to be sufficiently restrictive until the Board is confident that inflation is moving sustainably towards the target range.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board will continue to rely upon the data and the evolving assessment of risks to guide its decisions. In doing so, it will pay close attention to developments in the global economy and financial markets, trends in domestic demand, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that outcome.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate target unchanged at 4.35\'a0per\'a0cent and the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances unchanged at 4.25\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 Inflation remains above target and is proving persistent.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 Inflation has fallen substantially since its peak in 2022, as higher interest rates have been working to bring aggregate demand and supply closer towards balance. But inflation is still some way above the midpoint of the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range. In underlying terms, as represented by the trimmed mean, the CPI rose by 3.9\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to the June quarter, broadly as forecast in the May Statement on Monetary Policy (SMP). But the latest numbers also demonstrate that inflation is proving persistent. In year-ended terms, underlying inflation has now been above the midpoint of the target for 11\'a0consecutive quarters. And quarterly underlying CPI inflation has fallen very little over the past year.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 The outlook remains highly uncertain.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 The economic outlook is uncertain and recent data have demonstrated that the process of returning inflation to target has been slow and bumpy.\cb1 \
\cb2 The central forecasts set out in the latest SMP are for inflation to return to the target range of 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent late in 2025 and approach the midpoint in 2026. This represents a slightly slower return to target than forecast in May, based on estimates that the gap between aggregate demand and supply in the economy is larger than previously thought. In part, this reflects an increase in the forecast for domestic demand. But it also reflects a judgement that the economy\'92s capacity to meet that demand is somewhat weaker than previously thought, evidenced by the persistence of inflation and ongoing strength in the labour market.\cb1 \
\cb2 There is substantial uncertainty around these forecasts. Revisions to consumption and the saving rate in the most recent National Accounts, high unit labour costs and the persistence of inflation \'96 particularly in the services sector \'96 suggest there are upside risks to inflation. Wages growth appears to have peaked but is still above the level that can be sustained given trend productivity growth.\cb1 \
\cb2 On the other hand, momentum in economic activity has been weak, as evidenced by slow growth in GDP, a rise in the unemployment rate and reports that many businesses are under pressure. And there is a risk that household consumption picks up more slowly than expected, resulting in continued subdued output growth and a noticeable deterioration in the labour market.\cb1 \
\cb2 More broadly, there are uncertainties regarding the lags in the effect of monetary policy and how firms\'92 pricing decisions and wages will respond to the slower growth in the economy at a time of excess demand, and while conditions in the labour market remain tight.\cb1 \
\cb2 There also remains a high level of uncertainty about the overseas outlook. The outlook for the Chinese economy has softened and this has been reflected in commodity prices. Some central banks have eased policy, although they remain alert to the risk of persistent inflation. Globally, financial markets have been volatile of late and the Australian dollar has depreciated. Geopolitical uncertainties remain elevated, which may have implications for supply chains.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 Returning inflation to target is the priority.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 Returning inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe remains the Board\'92s highest priority. This is consistent with the RBA\'92s mandate for price stability and full employment. To date, longer-term inflation expectations have been consistent with the inflation target and it is important that this remain the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation in underlying terms remains too high, and the latest projections show that it will be some time yet before inflation is sustainably in the target range. Data have reinforced the need to remain vigilant to upside risks to inflation and the Board is not ruling anything in or out. Policy will need to be sufficiently restrictive until the Board is confident that inflation is moving sustainably towards the target range.\cb1 \
\cb2 The Board will rely upon the data and the evolving assessment of risks to guide its decisions. In doing so, it will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy and financial markets, trends in domestic demand, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that outcome.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate target unchanged at 4.35\'a0per\'a0cent and the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances unchanged at 4.25\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 Inflation remains above target and is proving persistent.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 Inflation has fallen substantially since its peak in 2022, as higher interest rates have been working to bring aggregate demand and supply closer towards balance. But the pace of decline has slowed in the most recent data, with inflation still some way above the midpoint of the 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent target range. Over the year to April, the monthly CPI indicator rose by 3.6\'a0per\'a0cent in headline terms, and by 4.1\'a0per\'a0cent excluding volatile items and holiday travel, which was similar to its pace in December 2023.\cb1 \
\cb2 Broader data indicate continuing excess demand in the economy, coupled with elevated domestic cost pressures, for both labour and non-labour inputs. Conditions in the labour market eased further over the past month but remain tighter than is consistent with sustained full employment and inflation at target. Wages growth appears to have peaked but is still above the level that can be sustained given trend productivity growth. Recent data revisions suggest that consumption over the past year was stronger than previously suggested. At the same time, output growth has been subdued, and consumption per capita has been declining, as households restrain their discretionary expenditure and inflation weighs on real incomes.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 The outlook remains highly uncertain.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 The economic outlook remains uncertain and recent data have demonstrated that the process of returning inflation to target is unlikely to be smooth.\cb1 \
\cb2 The central forecasts published in May were for inflation to return to the target range of 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent in the second half of 2025 and to the midpoint in 2026. Since then, there have been indications that momentum in economic activity is weak, including slow growth in GDP, a rise in the unemployment rate and slower-than-expected wages growth. At the same time, the revisions to consumption and the saving rate and the persistence of inflation suggest that risks to the upside remain. Recent budget outcomes may also have an impact on demand, although federal and state energy rebates will temporarily reduce headline inflation. The persistence of services price inflation is a key uncertainty. Also, although growth in unit labour costs has eased, it remains high. Productivity growth needs to pick up in a sustained way if inflation is to continue to decline.\cb1 \
\cb2 There is uncertainty around consumption growth. Real disposable incomes have now stabilised and are expected to grow later in the year, assisted by lower inflation and tax cuts. There has also been an increase in wealth, driven by housing prices. Together, these factors are expected to support growth in consumption over the coming year. But there is a risk that household consumption picks up more slowly than expected, resulting in continued subdued output growth and a noticeable deterioration in the labour market.\cb1 \
\cb2 More broadly, there are uncertainties regarding the lags in the effect of monetary policy and how firms\'92 pricing decisions and wages will respond to the slower growth in the economy at a time of excess demand, and while conditions in the labour market remain tight.\cb1 \
\cb2 There also remains a high level of uncertainty about the overseas outlook. Output growth in most advanced economies appears to have troughed. There has been improvement in the outlook for the Chinese and US economies, and many commodity prices have picked up. Some central banks have eased policy, although they remain alert to the risk of persistent inflation. Nevertheless, geopolitical uncertainties, including those related to the conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine, remain elevated, which may have implications for supply chains.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 Returning inflation to target is the priority.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 Returning inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe remains the Board\'92s highest priority. This is consistent with the RBA\'92s mandate for price stability and full employment. The Board needs to be confident that inflation is moving sustainably towards the target range. To date, medium-term inflation expectations have been consistent with the inflation target and it is important that this remains the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 Inflation is easing but has been doing so more slowly than previously expected and it remains high. The Board expects that it will be some time yet before inflation is sustainably in the target range. While recent data have been mixed, they have reinforced the need to remain vigilant to upside risks to inflation. The path of interest rates that will best ensure that inflation returns to target in a reasonable timeframe remains uncertain and the Board is not ruling anything in or out. The Board will rely upon the data and the evolving assessment of risks. In doing so, it will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in domestic demand, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that outcome.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate target unchanged at 4.35\'a0per\'a0cent and the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances unchanged at 4.25\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 Inflation remains high and is falling more gradually than expected.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 Recent information indicates that inflation continues to moderate, but is declining more slowly than expected. The CPI grew by 3.6\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to the March quarter, down from 4.1\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to December. Underlying inflation was higher than headline inflation and declined by less. This was due in large part to services inflation, which remains high and is moderating only gradually.\cb1 \
\cb2 Higher interest rates have been working to bring aggregate demand and supply somewhat closer towards balance. But the data indicate continuing excess demand in the economy, coupled with strong domestic cost pressures, both for labour and non-labour inputs. Conditions in the labour market have eased over the past year, but remain tighter than is consistent with sustained full employment and inflation at target. Wages growth appears to have peaked but is still above the level that can be sustained given trend productivity growth. Meanwhile, inflation is still weighing on people\'92s real incomes and output growth has been subdued, reflecting weak household consumption growth.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 The outlook remains highly uncertain.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 The economic outlook remains uncertain and recent data have demonstrated that the process of returning inflation to target is unlikely to be smooth.\cb1 \
\cb2 The central forecasts, based on the assumption that the cash rate follows market expectations, are for inflation to return to the target range of 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent in the second half of 2025, and to the midpoint in 2026. In the near term, inflation is forecast to be higher because of the recent rise in domestic petrol prices, and higher than expected services price inflation, which is now forecast to decline more slowly over the rest of the year. Inflation is, however, expected to decline over 2025 and 2026.\cb1 \
\cb2 The persistence of services inflation is a key uncertainty. It is expected to ease more slowly than previously forecast, reflecting stronger labour market conditions including a more gradual increase in the unemployment rate and the broader underutilisation rate. Growth in unit labour costs also remains very high. It has begun to moderate slightly as measured productivity growth picked up in the second half of last year. This trend needs to be sustained over time if inflation is to continue to decline.\cb1 \
\cb2 At the same time, household consumption growth has been particularly weak as high inflation and the earlier rises in interest rates have affected real disposable income. In response, households have been curbing discretionary spending and maintaining their saving. Real incomes have now stabilised and are expected to grow later in the year, supporting growth in consumption. But there is a risk that household consumption picks up more slowly than expected, resulting in continued subdued output growth and a noticeable deterioration in the labour market.\cb1 \
\cb2 More broadly, there are uncertainties regarding the lags in the effect of monetary policy and how firms\'92 pricing decisions and wages will respond to the slower growth in the economy at a time of excess demand, and while the labour market remains tight.\cb1 \
\cb2 There also remains a high level of uncertainty about the overseas outlook. While there has been improvement in the outlook for the Chinese and US economies, and many global commodity prices have picked up, geopolitical uncertainties, including those related to the conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine, remain elevated.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 Returning inflation to target is the priority.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 Returning inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe remains the Board\'92s highest priority. This is consistent with the RBA\'92s mandate for price stability and full employment. The Board needs to be confident that inflation is moving sustainably towards the target range. To date, medium-term inflation expectations have been consistent with the inflation target and it is important that this remains the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 Recent data indicate that, while inflation is easing, it is doing so more slowly than previously expected and it remains high. The Board expects that it will be some time yet before inflation is sustainably in the target range and will remain vigilant to upside risks. The path of interest rates that will best ensure that inflation returns to target in a reasonable timeframe remains uncertain and the Board is not ruling anything in or out. The Board will rely upon the data and the evolving assessment of risks. In doing so, it will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in domestic demand, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate target unchanged at 4.35\'a0per\'a0cent and the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances unchanged at 4.25\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 Inflation continues to moderate but remains high.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 Recent information suggests that inflation continues to moderate, in line with the RBA\'92s latest forecasts. The headline monthly CPI indicator was steady at 3.4\'a0per\'a0cent over the year to January, with momentum easing over recent months, driven by moderating goods inflation. Services inflation remains elevated, and is moderating at a more gradual pace. The data are consistent with continuing excess demand in the economy and strong domestic cost pressures, both for labour and non-labour inputs.\cb1 \
\cb2 Higher interest rates are working to establish a more sustainable balance between aggregate demand and supply in the economy. Accordingly, conditions in the labour market continue to ease gradually, although they remain tighter than is consistent with sustained full employment and inflation at target. Wages growth picked up a little further in the December quarter, but appears to have peaked with indications it will moderate over the year ahead. Nevertheless, this level of wages growth remains consistent with the inflation target only on the assumption that productivity growth increases to around its long-run average. Inflation is still weighing on people\'92s real incomes and household consumption growth is weak, as is dwelling investment.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 The outlook remains highly uncertain.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 While there are encouraging signs that inflation is moderating, the economic outlook remains uncertain. The December quarter national accounts data confirmed growth has slowed. Household consumption growth remains particularly weak amid high inflation and the rise in interest rates. After recent declines, real incomes have stabilised and are expected to grow from here, which is expected to support growth in consumption later in the year.\cb1 \
\cb2 Meanwhile, growth in unit labour costs remains very high. It has begun to moderate slightly as measured productivity growth has picked up in the past two quarters but whether this trend will be sustained is uncertain.\cb1 \
\cb2 The central forecasts are for inflation to return to the target range of 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent in 2025, and to the midpoint in 2026. Services price inflation is expected to decline gradually as demand moderates and growth in labour and non-labour costs eases. Employment is expected to continue to grow moderately, and the unemployment rate and the broader underutilisation rate are expected to increase a bit further.\cb1 \
\cb2 While there have been favourable signs on goods price inflation abroad, services price inflation has remained persistent and the same could occur in Australia. There also remains a high level of uncertainty around the outlook for the Chinese economy and the implications of the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East. Domestically, there are uncertainties regarding the lags in the effect of monetary policy and how firms\'92 pricing decisions and wages will respond to the slower growth in the economy at a time of excess demand, and while the labour market remains tight. The outlook for household consumption also remains uncertain.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 Returning inflation to target is the priority.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 Returning inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe remains the Board\'92s highest priority. This is consistent with the RBA\'92s mandate for price stability and full employment. The Board needs to be confident that inflation is moving sustainably towards the target range. To date, medium-term inflation expectations have been consistent with the inflation target and it is important that this remains the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 While recent data indicate that inflation is easing, it remains high. The Board expects that it will be some time yet before inflation is sustainably in the target range. The path of interest rates that will best ensure that inflation returns to target in a reasonable timeframe remains uncertain and the Board is not ruling anything in or out. The Board will rely upon the data and the evolving assessment of risks. The Board will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in domestic demand, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target.\
\
At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate target unchanged at 4.35\'a0per\'a0cent and the interest rate paid on Exchange Settlement balances unchanged at 4.25\'a0per\'a0cent.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 Inflation continues to moderate but remains high.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 Inflation continued to ease in the December quarter. Despite this progress, inflation remains high at 4.1\'a0per\'a0cent. Goods price inflation was lower than the RBA\'92s November forecasts. It has continued to ease, reflecting the resolution of earlier global supply chain disruptions and a moderation in domestic demand for goods. Services price inflation, however, declined at a more gradual pace in line with the RBA\'92s earlier forecasts and remains high. This is consistent with continuing excess demand in the economy and strong domestic cost pressures, both for labour and non-labour inputs.\cb1 \
\cb2 Higher interest rates are working to establish a more sustainable balance between aggregate demand and supply in the economy. Accordingly, conditions in the labour market continue to ease gradually, although they remain tighter than is consistent with sustained full employment and inflation at target. Wages growth has picked up but is not expected to increase much further and remains consistent with the inflation target, on the assumption that productivity growth increases to around its long-run average. Inflation is still weighing on people\'92s real incomes and household consumption growth is weak, as is dwelling investment.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 The outlook is still highly uncertain.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 While there are encouraging signs, the economic outlook is uncertain and the Board remains highly attentive to inflation risks. The central forecasts are for inflation to return to the target range of 2\'963\'a0per\'a0cent in 2025, and to the midpoint in 2026. Services price inflation is expected to decline gradually as demand moderates and growth in labour and non-labour costs eases. Employment is expected to continue to grow moderately and the unemployment rate and the broader underutilisation rate are expected to increase a bit further.\cb1 \
\cb2 While there have been favourable signs on goods price inflation abroad, services price inflation has remained persistent and the same could occur in Australia. There also remains a high level of uncertainty around the outlook for the Chinese economy and the implications of the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East. Domestically, there are uncertainties regarding the lags in the effect of monetary policy and how firms\'92 pricing decisions and wages will respond to the slower growth in the economy at a time of excess demand, and while the labour market remains tight. The outlook for household consumption also remains uncertain.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf6 \cb2 Returning inflation to target is the priority.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb2 Returning inflation to target within a reasonable timeframe remains the Board\'92s highest priority. This is consistent with the RBA\'92s mandate for price stability and full employment. The Board needs to be confident that inflation is moving sustainably towards the target range. To date, medium-term inflation expectations have been consistent with the inflation target and it is important that this remains the case.\cb1 \
\cb2 While recent data indicate that inflation is easing, it remains high. The Board expects that it will be some time yet before inflation is sustainably in the target range. The path of interest rates that will best ensure that inflation returns to target in a reasonable timeframe will depend upon the data and the evolving assessment of risks, and a further increase in interest rates cannot be ruled out. The Board will continue to pay close attention to developments in the global economy, trends in domestic demand, and the outlook for inflation and the labour market. The Board remains resolute in its determination to return inflation to target and will do what is necessary to achieve that outcome.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}